By . Associated Press . PUBLISHED: . 14:11 EST, 25 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 15:36 EST, 25 October 2013 . The bishop of the Fargo Catholic Diocese in North Dakota has exposed potentially hundreds of church members in Fargo, Grand Forks and Jamestown to the hepatitis A virus in late September and early October. The state Health Department has issued an advisory of exposure for anyone who attended five churches and took communion. Bishop John Folda (pictured) of the Fargo Catholic Diocese in North Dakota has exposed potentially hundreds of church members in Fargo, Grand Forks and Jamestown to the hepatitis A . State Immunization Program Manager Molly Howell says the risk is low, but officials feel it's important to alert people to the possible exposure. The diocese announced on Monday that Bishop John Folda is taking time off after being diagnosed with hepatitis A. The diocese says he contracted the infection through contaminated food while attending a conference for newly ordained bishops in Italy last month. Symptoms of hepatitis A include fever, tiredness, loss of appetite, nausea and abdominal discomfort. Fargo Catholic Diocese in North Dakota (pictured) is where the bishop is located .
(CNN) -- Ralph Mata was an internal affairs lieutenant for the Miami-Dade Police Department, working in the division that investigates allegations of wrongdoing by cops. Outside the office, authorities allege that the 45-year-old longtime officer worked with a drug trafficking organization to help plan a murder plot and get guns. A criminal complaint unsealed in U.S. District Court in New Jersey Tuesday accuses Mata, also known as "The Milk Man," of using his role as a police officer to help the drug trafficking organization in exchange for money and gifts, including a Rolex watch. In one instance, the complaint alleges, Mata arranged to pay two assassins to kill rival drug dealers. The killers would pose as cops, pulling over their targets before shooting them, according to the complaint. "Ultimately, the (organization) decided not to move forward with the murder plot, but Mata still received a payment for setting up the meetings," federal prosecutors said in a statement. The complaint also alleges that Mata used his police badge to purchase weapons for drug traffickers. Mata, according to the complaint, then used contacts at the airport to transport the weapons in his carry-on luggage on trips from Miami to the Dominican Republic. Court documents released by investigators do not specify the name of the drug trafficking organization with which Mata allegedly conspired but says the organization has been importing narcotics from places such as Ecuador and the Dominican Republic by hiding them "inside shipping containers containing pallets of produce, including bananas." The organization "has been distributing narcotics in New Jersey and elsewhere," the complaint says. Authorities arrested Mata on Tuesday in Miami Gardens, Florida. It was not immediately clear whether Mata has an attorney, and police officials could not be immediately reached for comment. Mata has worked for the Miami-Dade Police Department since 1992, including directing investigations in Miami Gardens and working as a lieutenant in the K-9 unit at Miami International Airport, according to the complaint. Since March 2010, he had been working in the internal affairs division. Mata faces charges of aiding and abetting a conspiracy to distribute cocaine, conspiring to distribute cocaine and engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity. He is scheduled to appear in federal court in Florida on Wednesday. If convicted, Mata could face life in prison. CNN's Suzanne Presto contributed to this report.
A drunk driver who killed a young woman in a head-on crash while checking his mobile phone has been jailed for six years. Craig Eccleston-Todd, 27, was driving home from a night at a pub when he received a text message. As he was reading or replying to it, he veered across the road while driving round a bend and smashed into Rachel Titley’s car coming the other way. Craig Eccleston-Todd, 27 (left) was using his mobile phone when he crashed head-on into the car being driven by Rachel Titley, 28 (right). She died later from her injuries . The head-on crash took place in October 2013. Mr Eccleston-Todd's car was barely recognisable (pictured) Police said Eccleston-Todd had drunk at least three or four pints of beer before getting behind the wheel. He was found guilty of causing death by dangerous driving at Portsmouth Crown Court yesterday. Miss Titley, a 28-year-old solicitor’s clerk from Cowes, Isle of Wight, had also spent the evening with friends at a pub but had not drunk any alcohol, police said. She was driving responsibly and there was ‘nothing she could have done to avoid the collision’, they added. Lindsay Pennell, prosecuting, said: ‘Craig Eccleston-Todd’s driving resulted in the tragic death of a young woman, Rachel Titley, a death that could have been avoided. ‘Mr Eccleston-Todd took the decision to pick up his mobile phone whilst driving and, either reading or replying to this text message, was so distracted that he failed to negotiate a left-hand bend, crossing the central white line into the path of Miss Titley’s oncoming car. Miss Titley was pulled the wreckage of her Daihatsu Cuore but died later from her injuries in hospital . ‘Miss Titley [had] a bright future ahead of her. She was also returning home having spent an enjoyable evening with friends and was driving responsibly. ‘She had arranged to contact her friends when she got home to confirm that she had arrived safely. Her friends sadly never heard from her after they parted company. ‘Miss Titley’s death in these circumstances reiterates the danger of using a hand-held mobile phone whilst driving.’ Police were unable to take breath or blood tests from Eccleston-Todd immediately, but in tests several hours after the accident he was only marginally under the drink-drive limit. The judge agreed with police that he would have been over the limit at the time his red Citroen hit Miss Titley’s blue Daihatsu Cuore on a road near Yarmouth, Isle of Wight, on October 11, 2013. His phone records showed he was also texting around the time of the crash. PC Mark Furse, from Hampshire constabulary’s serious collision investigation unit, said: 'Our thoughts are with Rachel's family at this time. She had been out with friends at a pub in Shalfleet that evening, but had not had any alcohol. 'Our investigation showed that there was nothing she could have done to avoid the collision and sadly it cost her her life. 'Mr Eccleston-Todd had left work in Yarmouth and met with friends at a pub where he drank at least three to four pints of lager. He hadn't long left the pub to return home when the collision occurred at around 9.30pm. 'We weren't able to take breath or blood tests from him immediately and although blood taken several hours after the collision showed he was marginally under the limit, we maintain he would have been over the limit at the time of the collision and in summing up today, the judge agreed. 'The analysis of his phone records showed that he was texting on his phone around the time of the collision so it's highly likely this would also have contributed to his dangerous driving and loss of control.' Eccleston-Todd was found guilty of causing death by dangerous driving following a trial at Portsmouth Crown Court (pictured) He added: 'Mr Eccleston-Todd will now spend six years behind bars, but Rachel's family have lost her forever. 'I hope this will make people think twice before drinking any alcohol and getting behind the wheel, or using a phone once they're on the road. 'The dangers of drink driving and driving whilst using a mobile phone are obvious. Those who continue to do so risk spending a substantial time in prison. This case highlights just how tragic the consequences of committing these offences can be.' ‘Mr Eccleston-Todd will now spend six years behind bars, but Rachel’s family have lost her for ever. I hope this will make people think twice before drinking any alcohol and getting behind the wheel, or using a phone once they’re on the road. This case highlights just how tragic the consequences of committing these offences can be.’ Eccleston-Todd, of Newport, Isle of Wight, was also disqualified from driving for eight years after which he will have to complete an extended re-test.
(CNN) -- With a breezy sweep of his pen President Vladimir Putin wrote a new chapter into Crimea's turbulent history, committing the region to a future returned to Russian domain. Sixty years prior, Ukraine's breakaway peninsula was signed away just as swiftly by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. But dealing with such a blatant land grab on its eastern flank won't be anywhere near as quick and easy for Europe's 28-member union. Because, unlike Crimea's rushed referendum, everyone has a say. After initially slapping visa restrictions and asset freezes on a limited number of little known politicians and military men, Europe is facing urgent calls to widen the scope of its measures to target the Russian business community in particular. The logic of this is that those who run Russia and own it are essentially two sides of the coin. Alexei Navalny, one-time Moscow mayoral contender now under house arrest for opposing the current regime, called for Europe's leaders to ban everyone -- from Vladimir Putin's personal banker to Chelsea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich from keeping their money and loved ones abroad. Asset freezes and visa restrictions are especially palatable options for the EU because they can be rolled out on a discretionary basis, without requiring cumbersome legal procedures and recourse. In fact Russia cancels visas for people it doesn't like all the time. Just look at Hermitage Capital founder Bill Browder who lost both his right of entry and Moscow-based money in 2005 and dare not go back. Russia also banned the adoption of its orphans by Americans in retaliation for the US's implementation of an anti-corruption law named after Sergei Magnitsky, Browder's lawyer who died after a year in a Moscow detention center, apparently beaten to death. Yet in playing the 'money talks' card, Europe must be ready for the consequences of such action. Because money also walks. As such EU leaders must be ready to accept sanctions are a two-way street and will hurt both sides. Targeting Russia's peripatetic business community would be one way of sapping their tenuous support for President Putin. And such a strategy might also turn out to have a silver lining: awarding EU countries a chance to finally deal with some of the more unpleasant sides of their patronage, including money laundering and corruption, which have inflated prize assets like London property and Picasso paintings for years. Where Europe should hold fire though is trade. Two decades of post-Soviet rapprochement and almost $500 billion worth of commerce is a lot to put at stake. It's true that any trade war would hurt Russia far harder than it would the EU - not least because 15% of the former's GDP comes from exports to the bloc. But Europe - with its hefty reliance on Russian gas - would have a hard time keeping its factories going and citizens warm without power from the east. And while Putin flexes his political muscle, open trade channels keep the dialogue going giving all sides a chance to change the subject and talk less tensely. No one can afford to cut off that lifeline, especially now with Europe's economy on the rebound and Russia's one on the wane.
Fleetwood are the only team still to have a 100% record in Sky Bet League One as a 2-0 win over Scunthorpe sent Graham Alexander’s men top of the table. The Cod Army are playing in the third tier for the first time in their history after six promotions in nine years and their remarkable ascent shows no sign of slowing with Jamie Proctor and Gareth Evans scoring the goals at Glanford Park. Fleetwood were one of five teams to have won two out of two but the other four clubs - Peterborough, Bristol City, Chesterfield and Crawley - all hit their first stumbling blocks. Posh were defeated 2-1 by Sheffield United, who had lost both of their opening contests. Jose Baxter’s opener gave the Blades a first-half lead, and although it was later cancelled out by Shaun Brisley’s goal, Ben Davies snatched a winner six minutes from time. In the lead: Jose Baxter (right) celebrates opening the scoring for Sheffield United . Up for the battle: Sheffield United's Michael Doyle (left) challenges Peterborough's Kyle Vassell in a keenly-contested clash . Bristol City, who beat Nigel Clough’s men on the opening day, were held to a goalless draw by last season's play-off finalists Leyton Orient while Chesterfield, the League Two champions, were beaten 1-0 by MK Dons, who play Manchester United in the Capital One Cup in seven days’ time. Arsenal loanee Benik Afobe scored the only goal of the game just after the break. Meanwhile, Crawley lost their unbeaten status, while Bradford maintained theirs, thanks to a 3-1 win for the Bantams. James Hanson became the first player to score against Crawley this season after 49 minutes before Joe Walsh equalised five minutes later. Heads up: Bristol City's Korey Smith (left) and Leyton Orient's Lloyd James go up for a header . But strikes from Billy Knott and Mason Bennett sealed an impressive away win Phil Parkinson's men. Bradford are now second behind Fleetwood after Doncaster’s stoppage-time equaliser meant Preston, for whom Joe Garner signed a new contract earlier on Tuesday, were held to a 1-1 draw which slipped them down the table. Chris Humphrey looked to have secured the points for the Lilywhites but Nathan Tyson struck a last-gasp leveller. Stand-in striker Matt Done scored a hat-trick for Rochdale in the evening’s high-scoring affair as Crewe were hammered 5-2. Marcus Haber marked his full Railwaymen debut with a brace but Done’s treble and goals from Ian Henderson and Peter Vincenti helped Keith Hill’s men to a big away victory. There were plenty of goals between Coventry and Barnsley too in a 2-2 draw with all four goals coming in the first half. Josh McQuoid and Jordan Clarke twice gave the Sky Blues the lead, but the Tykes earned a point thanks to strikes from Conor Hourihane and Leroy Lita. Notts County recorded a 2-1 home win over Colchester with Ronan Murray and Liam Noble on target. Freddie Sears replied for Colchester. James Wilson's second half equaliser earned Oldham a points against Port Vale after Tom Pope's opener and Yeovil claimed a 2-1 away victory at Walsall with Kevin Dawson striking a late winner. Tom Bradshaw had equalised after veteran James Hayter gave the Glovers the lead. Finally, Swindon held Gillingham to a 2-2 draw thanks to Stephen Bywater’s last-minute own goal. Danny Kedwell and Kortney Hause twice gave the Gills the lead but Andy Williams pulled Swindon level before Bywater dropped Raphael Branco's cross into his own net.
He's been accused of making many a fashion faux pas while on holiday. But the Prime Minister seems to be deaf to his critics. Yesterday David Cameron was seen in the same pair of beige loafers he wore on holiday last year. Mr Cameron, who is in Lanzarote with his family, got  the £20.99 shoes from high street store Aldo and took them with him to Portugal last summer. Retread: David Cameron with Samantha yesterday. And yes - he's wearing the same shoes . David Cameron and Samantha in Portugal last year - where he debuted his beige loafers . Yesterday he teamed them with a casual . navy blue shirt and beige shorts on a trip to Teguise in the centre of . the island with wife Samantha. As . ever fashion consultant Mrs Cameron trumped her husband in the style . stakes, wearing an elegant black maxi dress and emerald green cardigan. The . couple and their children Nancy, Arthur and Florence are spending six . days on the island in a £200-a-night restored 18th century farmhouse, . away from the main resorts. The Prime Minister sported no socks with smart black work shoes in one memorable holiday look . The couple wear matching trainers while on holiday in Granada, Spain, in 2011 . The . retreat has been styled with an Indonesian theme. It includes . carved Buddha statues, has its own yoga hall, swimming pool, hot tub . and ‘chill-out’ area with hammocks – ideal for a Prime  Minister who . reputedly has a taste for ‘chillaxing’. Mr . Cameron has previously been ridiculed for his holiday attire, such as . wearing smart black work shoes without socks and garish floral shorts. Refreshment: David Cameron and his wife Samantha stop off for a coffee and a water during their break in Lanzarote . Jetting off: In April, the Camerons holidayed in Lanzarote, staying in an upmarket hotel . The Camerons are holidaying in Lanzarote, the most eastern Canary Island .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 01:15 EST, 30 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 01:23 EST, 30 November 2013 . More than two decades after Magic Johnson announced that he had HIV, the basketball player says he is still surprised at the impact the news had. The former Los Angeles Lakers player said when he was first told he had HIV he was convinced he was going to die, but advances in drugs has helped Johnson - and millions of others - survive. Johnson, who became the face of HIV/Aids 22 years ago, is now campaigning for more people to get tested for the disease, especially those in black or Hispanic communities. Campaign: Magic Johnson has dedicated his life to raising awareness about HIV over the past 22 years . 'We have to drive people to get tested, . because that's the most important thing,' he told CBS News. 'The stigma and fear . of knowing their status' is holding people back. Johnson admitted that when his team's doctor told him blood results had revealed he had HIV in 1991 he was 'devastated'. 'At that time, people were really dying of Aids. I was just scared to death,' he said. The NBA star began treatment with Dr Michael Mellman and Dr David Ho, a top HIV researcher, who reassured him that newly developed drugs would improve his chance of survival. But it was a meeting with Aids activist Elizabeth Glaser who helped Johnson come to terms with the diagnosis, and influenced his decision to publicly campaign to raise awareness. Legend: NBA star Johnson, pictured here in 1985, was playing for the Lakers when he was told he had HIV . 'Scared': Johnson announces he has HIV at a Los Angeles press conference in 1991. He and wife, Cookie, left, were devastated by the diagnosis . Johnson said that Glaser, whose HIV had developed to Aids, was able to answer questions from him and his wife Cookie, who was two months' pregnant at the time, about living with the disease. 'The one thing she did say was I was . going to live for a long time. And the thing that she asked me to do was . become the face of the disease,' he said. 'She felt it was really . important that I go public to help a lot of other people who were living . the same lifestyle who didn’t know they had HIV and needed to get . tested ... And she was absolutely right.' His wife, Cookie, who tested negative . along with their son, told the Huffington Post: 'For us, it was super . hard. That was back in the day, in 1991, when people were dying at . alarming rates. That was when people didn’t know anything about the . disease, so it was very frightening.' Awareness: This graph shows the estimated new HIV infections across subpopulations in the U.S. in 2010 . The couple have been leading advocates for HIV awareness, and Johnson recently campaigned in Harlem's Apollo Theater to raise awareness about the high rates of the disease in black and Hispanic communities. Despite representing only 12 per cent . of the population, black Americans account for about 44 per cent of new . HIV infections each year. They are also more likely to die from the . disease. Hispanic Americans are also more . likely to die from HIV than white Americans. According to the Centers . for Disease Control and Prevention, Hispanics make up 21 per cent of new . infections each year. Overall, about 1.1 million Americans are living . with HIV, according to federal estimates, with almost one in five . unaware of their infection. Support: Cookie and Magic Johnson in St Tropez earlier this year. Cookie was pregnant with their son when Johnson heard he had HIV . Star: NBA legend Magic Johnson has become a vital part of the Aids awareness campaign . 'In the black community, unfortunately, . we’re still in denial that it can happen to us. We haven’t done a . wonderful job of raising the awareness level or educating our people. Its gotten better since I announced 22 years ago, but it needs to get . much better,' he said. His campaign earlier this month was to raise awareness about Orasure’s OraQuick at-home HIV test. The event was held in the run up to World Aids Day on December 1.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . This is the moment a train announcer stunned passengers by announcing over a tannoy as they pulled into a station to beware of pickpockets and gipsies. The London Midland service had been pulling into Telford Station, Shropshire, on Saturday when the comments were made. Passenger Chris Downes, 46, was recording on his mobile at the time and the announcer can clearly be heard saying: 'Telford Central - please be aware of pickpockets and gipsies'. Scroll down for video . This is the moment a train announcer stunned passengers by announcing over a tannoy as they pulled into a station to beware of pickpockets and gipsies . The remark was mainly greeted by cheers from Shrewsbury Town football fans travelling back from their game against Wolverhampton Wanderers. But London Midland said it is now launching an investigation into the incident on board the 17.25 Wolverhampton to Shrewsbury service. Yesterday Wolves fan Mr Downes, who was on his way home to Bayston Hill, Shropshire, with son Jack, 14, said: 'There had been loads of banter between the fans sharing carriages, which threatened to boil over. The atmosphere was a bit hostile at times. 'The announcement diluted the situation quite a bit and helped lighten the mood, to be honest.'But I thought at the time he might get into a bit of trouble for it. Which is shame really, because I’m sure it was intended in good humour. 'When we got to Shrewsbury he said "Welcome back to civilisation" and I for one am looking forward to travelling on his train again in future. 'There’s not enough train drivers with a sense of humour and I think his comments were only made in jest.' However, other passengers and residents of Telford yesterday reacted with disgust at the 'unprofessional' and 'offensive' comments. Mark Peaker, 47, a father-of-three, from Telford said: 'I couldn’t believe what I was hearing - they have not only used a derogatory term they have managed to offend an entire town. 'It suggests we are just a town full of thieves, which is not the case at all. Somebody in a professional role should not be insulting places while they are working. London Midland said it is now launching an investigation into the incident on board the 17.25 Wolverhampton to Shrewsbury service . 'I’m all for them having a sense of humour but this was not funny at all and I hope he is disciplined for his unprofessional actions.' One Wolves fan, who lives in Telford but wished to remain anonymous, was travelling back home from the derby match at Molineux, which ended 0-0. He said: 'I couldn’t believe it. I was utterly flabbergasted. 'Tensions among fans were already high after the match and I don’t think that helped the situation at all. The London Midland service had been pulling into Telford Station, Shropshire, on Saturday when the comments were made . 'Telford is actually a really nice place to live. It certainly isn’t up to a train announcer to make insulting comments about it.' The Gipsy Council called for the matter to be taken up with the police and branded the remarks as racist. Bill Kerswell, a spokesman for the council, said: 'This is unlawful, it is a racist comment. 'It is the same as using any offensive word relating to homosexuals or people of colour. 'I would think it is a police matter and I hope they take it up and look into it.' A spokesman for the train company thanked passengers for drawing it to their attention and added: 'We do not tolerate any sort of comment of that kind made by anyone on our trains and will be looking into it immediately.'
There are a number of job descriptions waiting for Darren Fletcher when he settles in at West Brom but the one he might not have expected is Saido Berahino’s nanny. Fletcher’s unveiling as the deadline day signing from Manchester United was almost eclipsed by the 21-year-old striker, who is acquiring the habit of talking himself into trouble. Ten years Berahino’s senior, Fletcher will be expected to mentor a player who told the world this week that he wanted to play for a bigger club. Tony Pulis has advised Saido Berahino to focus on his performances at West Brom . Darren Fletcher has signed for the baggies where he will be asked to provide a role model for young players . That is off the pitch. On it, the Scotland midfielder wants to prove he is good enough to cut the mustard in the Premier League after finding starts harder and harder to come by at Old Trafford. Head coach Tony Pulis believes that Fletcher, who has agreed a three-and-a-half year contract, will be captain of Albion one day. Having checked with Sir Alex Ferguson last year when he was Crystal Palace, Pulis did not need any more due diligence before moving in when a deal with West Ham collapsed. Pulis wants Fletcher to be his voice in the dressing room, especially when it comes to the younger players who may be led astray. Berahino has caught the eye with impressive performances at West Brom and suggested he could move on . Berahino’s latest outburst this week comes after he was found guilty of drink-driving and after he moodly refused to celebrate a hat-trick against Gateshead. ‘Things are not what they used to be,’ added Pulis. ‘The mentors for these young lads are just not there. These kids need guides and mentors so that the youngsters can respect them and take notice. ‘I think Fletch will be critical to that sort of stuff but give him time to settle in. As a character, having worked with him for a week, he is first class. He got through his illness with flying colours and I see him as a future captain of the club.’ As for Berahino, he will escape a fine. ‘He's been in a naughty chair. That's in my office,’ joked Pulis, although the underlying message was rather more serious. ‘We've had no phone calls. He needs to stop listening to all the kerfuffle.. This is a great football club with great players. And Saido has not become that yet. Pulis praised recent recruit Darren Fletcher and feels he could be an ideal role model for Berahino . ‘The question was whether would he like to play in a top four team and everyone wants that. His responsibility is to work for us until that happens. ‘I've spoken to him and his people. He has to do it rather than talk about it. That's what good players do and then clubs will be interested. He's done an interview but not for what he was supposed to be talking about.’ Fletcher has already been impressed by Berahino on the training ground but admitted: ‘The lads have gone straight into him. He has said something and he will learn from it. ‘He loves West Brom and wants to do well. He’s a young player who said something he shouldn’t and he probably regrets it. I’ve done that, all young players do that. ‘On first impressions he looks very sharp, a real goalscorer. He’s not shy!. Giving me orders straight away because he wants to score goals. He’s a nice kid welcoming, respectful and can be big influence for rest of season.’
Canberra, Australia (CNN) -- At first glance, it doesn't look like much. Hidden behind an unmarked door, in a nondescript government office building in the Australian capital, it could be mistaken for a high school science classroom with work benches, slightly outdated computer monitors, and the odd microscope sitting in the corner. But what happens in this room is anything but amateur. We're inside the Australian Transport Safety Bureau's accident investigation lab, the place where the black boxes from Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 could be brought if and when they're recovered from the bottom of the southern Indian Ocean. The place that may play a critical role in solving the mystery of what happened to the Boeing 777 and the 239 passengers and crew on board. Our guide today is Senior Transport Safety Investigator Neil Campbell. An engineer by trade, he's been taking apart flight data recorders and recovering the data from them for over two decades. Campbell says he thrives on the technical challenge of accident investigation, but there's another factor that attracts him to his chosen line of work. "Anything you can do to improve safety, improve the safety of the traveling public -- that's rewarding," he says. Just a handful of countries have the capability and technical know-how to decipher what's inside a black box. And if the Malaysians, who by international convention are in charge of the investigation into MH370, select Australia to take the lead, the devices will be brought here. 'Object of interest' found . Retrieving the memory board . We start by the sink. Once the flight data recorder or cockpit voice recorder is retrieved from more than 4500 meters below the surface of the Indian Ocean, it will be packed in water in a plastic bin to stop any salt or chemicals from solidifying and damaging the memory board, says Campbell. When the recorder arrives at the lab, Campbell or another investigator will rinse the recorder with distilled water, then begin the process of taking it apart. Sometimes getting the data is simple. "A lot of our work is with undamaged recorders and it's very easy to download them, much as you would a USB memory stick," Campbell says, as he flips open a slot on the end of the recorder. But the process becomes much more technical if the recorders are damaged by fire or water. On the shelves of the lab's main room are examples of black boxes that have survived some of the worst conditions. Their metal casing is warped and torn, or their bright orange exterior charred black. But even with these recorders, Campbell still has options to tackle what some might consider an impossible task. That's because the only part of the flight data recorder that investigators really need intact is a small rectangular box called the Crash Survivable Memory Unit (CSMU). Campbell unscrews a couple of bolts. Wearing gloves and grounded to an anti-static mat, he begins peeling off layer upon layer of housing and protective insulation. In the center, is a memory board with eight flash memory chips, no bigger than the palm of his hand. This is where the vital data, and potentially the answers, live. In the case of the Boeing 777, Campbell says, the flight data recorder captures about 2,000 parameters for up to 25 hours. Those include everything from altitude and airspeed, to flap settings, engine performance, even cabin temperature and pressure. Campbell says some of the key parameters are recorded as often as eight times per second. The cockpit voice recorder captures four audio channels for a maximum of two hours before overwriting. One of the most challenging scenarios is when the board itself is damaged: "We could take each individual chip off the circuit board, read those out individually, and then with the help of the manufacturer, piece all that information together," Campbell explains. If there's water damage, Campbell says he will rinse the board very carefully, then use a water displacement liquid, before drying out the circuit board in an oven. That process can take a couple of days. Decoding the data . When the raw data is downloaded from the recorder, it comes out as binary computer code, a slew of zeros and ones. Using a document provided by the aircraft manufacturer, investigators are able to decode each piece of data, and begin the process of getting a clearer picture of what happened and when. To illustrate the point of just what the information gathered from a flight data recorder can show, Campbell takes us through a heavy door into the soundproof audio analysis lab and pulls up an animation on a monitor. For the next 90 seconds we watch an animated representation of a 2010 twin propeller plane crash in Darwin, Australia, when a simulated engine failure went wrong after takeoff, tragically ending in the death of both pilots on board. Campbell says having this visual representation is a vital tool in helping the public understand an accident: "There's a satisfaction in working out what happened with the accident and the conclusions, and the closure that that brings." Closure that any investigator, wherever the black boxes from MH370 end up, might hope to bring to the loved ones of those on board the missing Malaysian Airlines flight. CNN's Michael Holmes contributed to this report.