By . Ellie Zolfagharifard . Take a look at a map today, and you’re likely to see that North America is larger than Africa, Alaska is larger than Mexico and China is smaller than Greenland. But in reality China is four times bigger than Greenland, Africa is three times bigger than North America and Mexico is larger than Alaska. The distortion is the result of the Mercator projection, the map most commonly seen hanging in classrooms and in text books, which was created in 1596 to help sailors navigate the world. The Mercator projection, the map most commonly seen hanging in classrooms and in text books, was created in 1596 to help sailors navigate the world. The familiar map gives the right shapes of land masses, but at the cost of distorting their sizes in favour of the wealthy lands to the north . You might think that the advent of satellite imagery and tools such as Google maps has improved our view of the world, but this isn’t necessarily the case, according to James Wan writing in the Guardian. Much of this is due to technical reasons, said Mr Wan, while others inconsistences are caused by ideological assumptions that can change the way we see the world. The biggest challenge is that it is impossible to portray the reality of the spherical world on a flat map – a problem that has haunted cartographers for centuries. One of the best alternatives to the Mercator projection was presented in 1974 by D. Arno Peters (pictured). The Gall-Peters projection makes seeing the relative size of places much easier. However it also has its flaws as certain places appear stretched, horizontally near the poles and vertically near the Equator . A depiction of the world by Henricus Martellus. It's said that Columbus used this map or one like it to persuade Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile to support him in the early 1490s. The map was made by a German cartographer living in Florence and reflects the latest theories about the form of the world and the most accurate ways of portraying it on a flat surface . Africa is around 14 times larger than Greenland and yet on the map both are almost same size. Brazil is more than five times larger than Alaska, yet Alaska is larger than Brazil on the map. The map suggests that Scandinavian countries are larger than India, whereas in reality India is three times the size of all Scandinavian countries put together. While it looks like Europe is larger than North America on this map, in reality the reverse is true. Russia also isn't as large as it is depicted, with Africa larger than Russia in reality. As a result, shapes of world maps have typically been diverse, ranging from hearts to cones. But the diversity gradually faded away with one model, invented by Gerardus Mercator, surpassing the others. The familiar 'Mercator' projection gives the right shapes of land masses, but at the cost of distorting their sizes in favour of the wealthy lands to the north. For instance, in the Mercator projection, north America looks at least as big, if not slightly larger, than Africa. And Greenland also looks of comparable size. But in reality Africa is larger than both. In fact, you can fit north America into Africa and still have space for India, Argentina, Tunisia and some left over, notes Mr Wan. Greenland, meanwhile, is 1/14th the size of the continent as can be seen in Gall-Peters equal projection, which provides the correct proportion of land mass to the continents. The map suggests that Scandinavian countries are larger than India, whereas in reality India is three times the size of all Scandinavian countries put together. As well, as this, it seems the fact that our maps typically put north at the top is a mere convention but has been accepted as correct in most of the world. Looking back, the diversity of maps can reveal a history of the world. The Chinese Globe which was made for the Chinese Emperor in 1623. The creators exaggerated the size of China and placed it in the middle of a world that otherwise consisted mainly of small offshore islands . The Werner heart-shaped project of the world (left) The fact that our maps typically put north at the top is a mere convention but has been accepted as correct in most of the world. Pictured on the right is a Mercator map turned on its head . For instance, The ‘Be On Guard!’ map was . created in 1921 when infant USSR was threatened with invasion, famine . and social unrest. To counter this, designers such as Dimitri Moor were employed to create pro-Bolshevik propaganda. Using a map of European Russia and its neighbours, Moor's image of a heroic Bolshevik guard defeating the invading 'Whites' helped define the Soviet Union in the Russian popular imagination. An earlier map, called the Hinese Globe, created in 1623 reveals the ancient Chinese view of the world. Made for the Chinese Emperor, this is the earliest known Chinese terrestrial globe, and a fusion of East and Western cultures. The creators exaggerated the size of China and placed it in the middle of a world that otherwise consisted mainly of small off¬shore islands. A century earlier, the 1507 Waldseemuller map named and envisaged America as a separate continent for the first time. Photo of a genuine hand drawn world map, it was drawn in 1844 and therefore the countries are named as they were in that period. The biggest challenge is that it is impossible to portray the reality of the spherical world on a flat map . Perhaps to emphasise the independent existence of the Americas, the map shows what we now know is the Pacific lapping the western coast of South America, though its existence was only confirmed years late. In 2005, Google Earth presented a world in which the area of most concern to the used could be at the centre, and which - with mapped content overlaid - can contain whatever you think is important. Almost for the first time, the ability to create an accurate map has been placed in the hands of everyone, and it has transformed the way we view the world. But it comes at a price. There are few, if any, agreed standards about what should be included, and the less populated and 'less important' regions get ignored. The infant USSR was threatened with invasion, famine and social unrest. To counter this, brilliant designers such as Dimitri Moor were employed to create pro-Bolshevik propaganda. Using a map of European Russia and its neighbours, Moor's image of a heroic Bolshevik guard defeating the invading 'Whites' helped define the Soviet Union in the Russian popular imagination . Google Maps claims that it is on a 'never-ending quest for the perfect map', but Jerry Brotton, historian of cartography and the author of A History of the World in Twelve Maps, isn't so sure . A Mercator map created in 1569. In the Mercator projection, north America looks at least as big, if not slightly larger, than Africa. And Greenland also looks of comparable size . Today, billions of searches are made on Google Maps each day, helping people navigate their way around, streets, towns and countries. Google Maps claims that it is on a ‘never-ending quest for the perfect map’, but Jerry Brotton, historian of cartography and the author of A History of the World in Twelve Maps, isn’t so sure. He argues that all maps are of their time, their place and serve certain purposes. ‘No world map is, or can be, a definitive, transparent depiction of its subject that offers a disembodied eye onto the world,’ he writes. ‘Each one is a continual negotiation between its makers and users, as their understanding of the world changes.’ This map was used in 1782 by British diplomats negotiating an end to the American War of Independence in Paris. Richard Oswald, secretary to the delegation, annotated it with coloured lines to show where it was thought past treaties established the U.S./Canada border .
Two lawyers representing a woman who . claims to have had sex as a minor with prominent U.S. criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz have filed a counter-defamation . lawsuit against him. Former federal judge Paul Cassell and Florida plaintiffs . attorney Bradley Edwards filed the lawsuit in a Florida circuit . court, accusing Dershowitz of initiating a public media assault . on their reputation and character, according to court documents. In a filing in Florida federal court last week, Cassell and . Edwards said their client, identified by Buckingham Palace as Virginia Roberts, was forced . as a minor by financier Jeffrey Epstein to have sex with several . people, including Dershowitz and  Prince Andrew. Two lawyers representing Virginia Roberts, pictured here with her husband Robert Giuffre in Denver, who claims to have had sex while a minor with prominent U.S.criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz, filed a counter-defamation lawsuit against him . On Monday Dershowitz, who was part of O.J. Simpson's 'dream team', filed defamation suits in both London and the U.S. based on the lawyers' public statements about the case and he urged Prince Andrew to do the same. In a sworn statement in a Florida . federal court, he denied he had sex with an underage girl on . Epstein's private plane and island. Buckingham Palace has also . denied the allegations against Prince Andrew. In their lawsuit, Cassell and Edwards said Dershowitz . defamed them when he accused them of 'deliberate misconduct and . unethical behavior warranting disbarment' during several . interviews with U.S. and international media outlets. On Monday Dershowitz, who was part of O.J. Simpson's 'dream team', filed defamation suits in both London and the U.S. based on Cassell and Edwards' public statements about the case and he urged Prince Andrew to do the same . Controversy: Prince Andrew, pictured here in Verbier, Switzerland, has been linked with paedophile Jeffrey Epstein and accused of having sex with Virginia Roberts when she was a minor . Cassell and Edwards said Dershowitz made defamatory . statements in 'reckless disregard' in order to support his claim . of innocence. 'I'm thrilled that they sued me, because this gives me an . opportunity to depose them and prove beyond any doubt that they . concocted the entire story out of whole cloth and that they did . not do a proper investigation and that they have falsely accused . me,' Dershowitz said on Tuesday. Dershowitz said in Monday's filing that the allegation . against him was a 'deliberate lie.' He said that while he had . flown on Epstein's plane several times, Roberts, named in court papers as Jane Doe #3, was not on . any of those trips. Lawyers: Dershowitz slammed his accuser's lawyers, Brad Edwards (left) and Paul Cassell (right), for naming him in the lawsuit. He claims that they failed to carry out proper investigations - which they have denied . Questions: Prince Andrew is photographed with Virginia Roberts in 2001, left, and she is also pictured with her father, right, when she was seven. Roberts accused the prince and Dershowitz of having sex with her . He also said he had been to Epstein's island . once, for a day, and was with his wife and daughter the whole . time. Also on Monday, Dershowitz filed a motion in federal court . to enter in a lawsuit brought against the U.S. government by his . accuser and other women who say Epstein sexually abused them. The women say the government's 2008 plea deal with Epstein, . which allowed him to serve jail time on state charges but avoid . federal prosecution, violated their rights. Dershowitz, a Harvard University professor emeritus, . represented Epstein against the sex crime charges, for which . Epstein served a 13-month sentence after pleading guilty in . 2008. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
It's the moment every pet owner dreads - when the time comes when they have to say a final goodbye to a faithful friend. These heart-breaking end-of-life snaps are meant to highlight the special relationship between an owner and their dying pet in its last moments. Sarah Ernhart, the owner of Sarah Beth Photography in Minneapolis,  created them in what she dubbed a 'Joy Session', in which she records owners' last embrace with their pets that are too old to live or have been diagnosed with terminal illnesses. Final embrace: These special, end-of-life photography sessions are just for terminally ill or elderly pets . Mrs Ernhart, who has been a professional photographer since 2006, trademarked the name Joy Session, and began offering them in 2010. She has since had more than 100 shoots with owners and their pets. 'People seem to love the idea,' she said. 'It's getting bigger and bigger.' The service has become so popular that Mrs Ernhart has built a directory of photographers around the world who shoot terminally ill pets with their owners. 'It can definitely be very emotional,' Mrs Ernhart said. 'It's a very sensitive time for these people who have been with these animals for their entire lives. I definitely have cried with some of the owners. 'The sessions can be happy at the same time because the owners get to talk about their favorite little quirks and things that they like about their pets. I get this inside view of what these people's lives are like. It's a pretty powerful.' Explaining how she came up with the idea, Mrs Ernhart said: 'The name "Joy Session" is not something I arbitrarily chose. There's a . very personal meaning behind it, and I'd like to share how it all began. Mrs Ernhart said: 'The name "Joy Session" is not something I arbitrarily chose. There's a . very personal meaning behind it' The images were created by photographer Sarah Ernhart, the owner of Sarah Beth Photography in Minneapolis . Last moments: The beautiful, yet heartbreaking pictures, are meant to highlight the relationship between pet and owner before they pass . 'Shortly . before Christmas in 2009, I had a photo shoot with a woman named Joan. Her friend booked the session as a gift, and we had a beautiful sunny . day for it. 'Joan was living . at home in Hospice care, and relied on the companionship and day-to-day . help of her Service Dog, a Black Lab named Joy. Joy was her rock, her . best friend, and had saved Joan's life on more than one occasion. 'She would let Joan know when her blood sugar was low, and if she was about to have a seizure. Joy would place herself under Joan to break her fall, stand firm to help . her up, and was by her side day and night. I came into this session . knowing that Joan didn't have much time left, but I had no idea I'd be meeting such a vibrant, funny, happy woman. Mrs Ernhart, who has been a professional photographer since 2006, began offering her service in 2010 . The service has become widespread enough that Mrs Ernhart has built a directory of photographers around the world who shoot terminally ill pets with their owners . 'She . was so blessed to have Joy come into her life, and her eyes lit up with . every story she told of her. She said that Joy was her "gift from God" and taking these photos had given her something wonderful to look . forward to. 'Their bond was . palpable, and it was easy to see that both of them were very loved. Her . apartment was filled with the word "Joy" in artwork and pillows and . Christmas decorations. 'She even wore a "Joy" sweatshirt during our session.We sat and chatted for a long time. Joan's zest for life, even with her declining health, was a breath of . fresh air for me, and helped me see that what I do is meaningful and . important in so many ways. Emotional: The photographer said the sessions are for people who want to 'celebrate the happiness' their pets have brought to their lives . Final farewell: Two boys pictured saying their final goodbye to their pet dog . Last rites: An owner strokes his pet in the park before the terminally ill dog dies . 'Without . knowing it at the time, she and Joy sparked the idea to offer photo . sessions specifically for pets that are nearing the end of their lives. 'For so many people, their pets mean the world to them, and I want to . provide an opportunity to capture what makes them so special, especially . in such a difficult time. 'My . first "official" Joy session was with a Bernese Mountain dog named . Griffin, in January of 2010. I really didn't know what to call this . service, and "Emergency Session" was the first thing I could think of. It sounded so cold and impersonal, and I struggled with what I should . really call it. Difficult time: For many people, their pets mean the world to them, said Mrs Ernhart . The snapper says she had more than 100 shoots with owners and their pets since she launched the service three years ago . Last embrace: A woman with her beloved pet dog in its last moments . Goodbye old friend: A faithful pet dog shortly before it is put down . Time to say goodbye: A dog pictured looking on. Little does it know there is only a short while left . Difficult time: For many people, their pets mean the world to them, said Mrs Ernhart . Mrs Ernhart said: 'The sessions can be happy at the same time because the owners get to talk about their favorite little quirks and things that they like about their pets' 'A few days after posting Griffin's . blog, and receiving some very nice suggestions from readers, I realised . the perfect name was sitting right in front of me. I couldn't think of . anything or anyone I'd met who embodied such love and such a deep . connection as Joan and Joy. 'These sessions really are for people who want to celebrate the happiness - the joy - their pets have brought to their lives.' Mrs Ernhart is a pet owner herself with a miniature schnauzer and two cats.
Louis van Gaal said he had no option but to substitute Paddy McNair in the first half against Southampton because the defender's 'confidence' was shot - but believes that it will benefit the youngster in the long run. The 19-year-old was hooked by Van Gaal after only 39 minutes at St Mary's Stadium on Monday night during Manchester United's 2-1 victory over the Saints. McNair was struggling to contain Southampton strikers Shane Long and Graziano Pelle, forcing Van Gaal into replacing him prematurely. Paddy McNair (centre) was substituted after only 39 minutes for Manchester United against Southampton . McNair (centre) takes his seat in the stands having been replaced by his manager on Monday night . United boss Louis van Gaal admitted he 'had to' substitute McNair against Southampton . McNair shakes Van Gaal's hand as he leaves the field having been replaced during United's 2-1 victory . Speaking to Sky Sports after the match, Van Gaal explained: 'He (McNair) hadn't any confidence. He had already given three big chances away. 'I had to (substitute him), it's very disappointing for me and also for Paddy, but I had to because as a manager, I'm responsible to win. 'And I think, after the change, we played a little better.' Robin van Persie's brace, either side of a Pelle strike, ensured United left the south coast with three points. McNair (right) slices the ball forward off his foot during the early stages of the Southampton clash . Robin van Persie scored what turned out to be the winning goal for Manchester United . But in spite of the fact United won the game, McNair was exposed time after time in defence and was substituted - even though Chris Smalling had already departed early with an injury. Jonny Evans came on to replace Smalling, before McNair made way for midfielder Ander Herrera as Michael Carrick dropped back in to the centre of defence in Van Gaal's 3-5-2 system. And, despite admitting it will be difficult for McNair to accept being replaced so early, Van Gaal insisted that it was a necessity which will serve the Northern Irishman well long term. Van Gaal continued: 'Of course, it's tough (for McNair), but it's also in his best interests.' The victory moved United up to third in the Premier League - their highest position since they claimed the title in 2012-13 under Sir Alex Ferguson. Van Persie, pictured with Juan Mata (left) and Marouane Fellaini (right) celebrates after scoring the opener .
(CNN) -- One can hardly read the news these days without learning that yet another American corporation has announced plans to invert, which is corporate-speak for restructuring as a foreign company to avoid U.S. taxes. It's a trend that has increased exponentially over the past decade with barely a peep from Congress. Now that corporate giants such as Pfizer, Walgreen, Medtronic and Mylan have made bids to invert by merging with foreign companies and will be eligible to claim their headquarters are offshore to avoid U.S. taxes, Congress may finally act. These large corporations have publicly asserted they are moving their headquarters, but they really won't change the way they do business. Medtronic, for example, is buying an Ireland-based company. If the merger goes through, the company has said it will maintain "operational headquarters" in Minneapolis, where the company is currently based. In other words, not much will change except the company will claim to be foreign. (Medtronic officials say the move is not about avoiding taxes and that the firm will still face substantial taxes; the firm does have the right to cancel the deal if Congress changes the law in a way that removes the tax benefits of inversion.) Walgreen, the nation's largest drug retailer, has said it is considering moving its headquarters to Switzerland. Inversions are just another ploy that corporations use to reduce or eliminate their U.S. tax bills. According to the Congressional Research Service, legislation to limit corporate inversions could provide an additional $19.5 billion in revenue over 10 years. Even among corporations that aren't pursing inversions, shifting profits offshore to avoid U.S. taxes is a huge problem. For example, American corporations reported to the IRS that subsidiaries in Bermuda and the Cayman Islands collectively earned profits equal to 16 times the gross domestic product of those countries, according to recent data. It's clearly impossible for companies to earn profits in a country that are exponentially larger than that country's entire economy, further proving companies are using accounting gimmicks to avoid U.S. taxes. American corporations engage in these tricks because they can defer paying U.S. taxes on alleged offshore earnings until they officially bring those profits to the United States, which may never happen. Corporations get a permanent break when they invert because the United States will not tax profits earned outside its borders. Corporate inversions are often followed by earnings stripping, a maneuver that artificially shifts profits into lower-tax or zero-tax countries. A recent exposÃ© explains how the highly profitable manufacturer Ingersoll Rand suddenly began reporting U.S. losses or very small profits each year after inverting to become a Bermuda corporation in 2001. This did not reflect any actual loss of U.S. customers or business. Rather, the corporation accomplished this by loaning $3 billion to its U.S. subsidiary, which then deducted the interest payments on the debt to effectively wipe out its U.S. income for tax purposes. Defenders of corporate inversions often argue the United States' 35% statutory corporate tax rate is too high compared to that of other nations and therefore puts companies at a competitive disadvantage, but most U.S. companies pay nowhere near that rate. Defenders also claim profits earned in the United States will always be taxed here. But the earnings stripping practiced by Ingersoll Rand and other inverted companies suggests this is not true. The ultimate goal of much multinational tax planning is making profits appear to be earned in countries with a zero or low tax rate. Reducing the nation's corporate tax rate cannot address the fact that many corporations are employing various means to avoid U.S. taxes altogether. Companies that have recently sought inversions continue to benefit vastly from public investments. The drugs and devices made by Pfizer and Medtronic, which are often sold by Walgreen, would have far fewer buyers if not for Medicaid, Medicare and other federal health programs. They would not exist without federal investments in research and education and in the infrastructure that makes commerce possible. Taxpayers should be outraged that these companies have no qualms about benefiting immensely from the U.S. economic system without contributing their fair share. But Congress can easily fix this by moving forward with a White House proposal to bar corporations that are obviously American from pretending to be foreign. The plan would sensibly treat newly merged companies as American if they are majority owned by shareholders of the original American company, or if they are managed and controlled inside the United States and have substantial business here. There's much more to be done to reform America's tax code, but we can't afford to wait for lawmakers to settle how to approach that challenge. If Congress waits too long, there won't be much of a corporate tax left to reform.
For most people, it has become a travel essential. Taking your smartphone or tablet away on holiday keep you in touch with what's going on back home, as well as offering a chance to monitor 'work emails.' But a 'digital detox' revolution is taking place - a chance to embrace the holiday free from modern technology and reminders of home life. The Red Mountain Resort, in Utah, US, is an adventure spa next to Snow Canyon State Park and offers a real 'disconnected' break . Digital Detox Holidays offer the chance to leave your smartphone at home and enjoy all the luxury; pictured is Lake Placid Lodge, in the Adirondacks, US . The temptation to scour work emails on holiday has led to more and more people looking for a digital detox . In an age where it’s becoming increasingly difficult to unplug, a third of Brits say they regret spending too much time on their mobile device while they’re on holiday. Half of all Brits polled admit to checking work e-mails while away and four in 10 say having access to social media is 'very important' to them when they’re abroad. One website showcasing the spots around the world free of Wi-Fi and phone reception, www.digitaldetoxholidays.com have reported a five-fold increase in customers in six months, report The Independent. Their website slogan reads: 'Since you became increasingly addicted to your devices, we have been selecting hotels that are offering detox holidays to help you de-stress.' This spot in Essex, the 'Lifehouse Spa, has a strict tech-free policy in their grounds to enable you to be at peace with the world . Recognized as 'one of the world’s nine amazing yoga retreat destinations,' Via Yoga in Mexico is the escape you’ve been waiting for . The Teton Lodge at Jackson Hole, US is the perfect accommodation for the people who like winter sports and visiting nature parks - you won't even miss your smartphone . From remote beach huts, to garden lodges and mountain lodges, the company aim to find the perfect holiday where the smartphone is reduced to useless. Locations are marketed in the US, the Caribbean, and even a 'Lifehouse Spa' in Thorpe-le-Soken, Essex. Kimpton Monaco residence in Chicago, US Offers a 'black-out' option, with guests surrendering all devices upon check-in . A unique luxury ranch nestled in British Columbia’s picturesque Cariboo region, the Echo Valley Ranch & Spa, Canada offers ultimate serenity . Alison Couper, of Hotels.com, said: ‘Going away on holiday should be a time to take stock and unwind, whether you're lying on a beach in the Seychelles or snowboarding down a mountain in Canada. ‘While smartphones have their plus points while on leave from work, using them to check the weather or view maps, it seems travellers would benefit from switching off their e-mails to disconnect, restoring a little more of the all-important work/life balance.’
By . Margot Peppers . Nigerian and Cameroonian pop star Dencia has hit out at Lupita Nyong'o for her new contract with Lancome, accusing her of bowing to 'white people companies'. In an angry tweet directed at the 12 Years A Slave star, she wrote: 'Oh @Lupita_Nyongo cln't talk abt the bleaching creams white people (Companies) make cuz the white man pays her, they own her!! [sic]'. The comment comes just a month after Miss Nyong'o mentioned Dencia - who has been accused of marketing her own brand of skin-bleaching cream called Whitenicious - in a speech about learning to value the color of her own skin. Scroll down for video . Butting heads: Nigerian and Cameroonian pop star Dencia has hit out at Lupita Nyong'o for her new contract with Lancome, accusing her of bowing to 'white people companies' Fighting words: In a tweet directed at the 12 Years A Slave star, she wrote: 'Oh @Lupita_Nyongo cln't talk abt the bleaching creams white people (Companies) make cuz the white man pays her, they own her!! [sic]' The pop star is no stranger to . controversy; in a February interview with Ebony, she all but admitted . that Whitenicious is intended as a skin-lightener, not as a cure for . dark spots as it claims. 'When . you take that picture and you put a picture of Dencia darker, this is . what you're telling people - the product really works,' she said. 'And guess what? People really want to buy it. It's what it is. I don't really care.' Given her defiant and hypocritical attitude, it's no surprise the fiery singer was angered when Miss Nyong'o called her out in a speech at Essence's Black Women in Hollywood event on February 27. Influential: In a recent speech, Miss Nyong'o read out loud a letter from a fan who said she decided not to buy Dencia's skin-whitening cream Whitenicious because the actress had inspired her to love her own skin . On-screen: Miss Nyong'o won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role in 2013 film 12 Years A Slave . In her talk, the 30-year-old opened up about how conventional standards of beauty once affected her self-esteem, reading aloud a letter written to her by a young girl who viewed her as a role model. 'Dear Lupita,' reads the letter. 'I think you're really lucky to be this black but yet this successful in Hollywood overnight. I was just about to buy Dencia's Whitenicious cream to lighten my skin when you appeared on the world map and saved me.' 'My heart bled a little when I read those words,' the actress said through tears, explaining how as a child, she, too, would pray that she'd one day wake up with lighter skin. Hypocritical: Dencia is no stranger to controversy; in a February interview with Ebony, she essentially admitted that Whitenicious is intended as a skin-lightener, not as a cure for dark spots as it claims . Perpetuating the problem: 'When you take that picture and you put a picture of Dencia darker, this is what you're telling people - the product really works,' she said. 'And guess what? People really want to buy it' But while the actress saw the letter as a source of inspiration, Dencia took it as a personal attack. After her angry tweet at Miss Nyong'o, criticism poured in, with one person tweeting: 'B**** lupita is the new face of Lancôme!! SHE WINS!! And you're just TRASH [sic]'. In her response, Dencia said of the cosmetics company: 'But they sell bleaching cream tho [sic]'. The pop star is likely referring to Lancome's Blanc Expert range of cosmetics, which are actually advertised as 'brighteners' that 'regulate melanin production and awaken the luminosity of the skin'. And as far as Dencia's claim that Lancome is a 'white people company', a quick perusal of the website reveals that it has a number of concealers and foundations in darker skin tones.
Britain and the West must brace themselves for more bloody atrocities before Islamist jihadists in Iraq  are defeated, former top brass said  last night. Retired commanders issued the chilling warning as they urged David Cameron to deploy more RAF warplanes to fight Islamic State fanatics. The ex-military chiefs also suggested stepping up Special Forces operations to ‘spoil the day’ of the fanatics, including British Muslims, who have swept across northern Iraq. Recruiters: British jihadis Reyaad Khan, Nasser Muthana and Abdul Raqib Amin are seen in an IS video released earlier this year. In the video, the trio encourage other Britons to join them . Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon, a former head of the RAF, and Air Commodore Andrew Lambert, a former air defence chief who commanded forces in Iraq, called for Britain to ramp up military options in Iraq. They spoke out after gruesome images were published on the internet of a jihadist, with a British accent, murdering US journalist James Foley – claiming it was in revenge for US air strikes. As Mr Cameron condemned the ‘brutal and barbaric murder’, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said British troops could be sent to Baghdad to help train Iraqi soldiers to counter the growing threat. So far the UK has deployed an RAF  Rivet Joint spy plane – a flying ‘listening post’ that picks up chatter made over mobile  phones or radios – and six Tornado fighter jets fitted with state-of-the-art surveillance equipment that beam real-time images of targets  to commanders. The aim is to gather vast amounts of crucial intelligence, including on militants’ manoeuvres, to support humanitarian efforts – but this could be used to support US bombers in strike missions to oust Islamic State. But Sir Michael, who served as Chief of the Air Staff from 1992 to 1997, warned the West must be prepared for jihadists taking retribution against other hostages as they were pounded by air strikes. Referring to Mr Foley’s murder, he said: ‘Being blunt, we sadly must expect more of this. We are dealing with fanatical, religious people who are long past the point of normal behaviour. They must be stopped.’ Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon, a former head of the RAF, and Air Commodore Andrew Lambert, a former air defence chief who commanded forces in Iraq, called for Britain to ramp up military options in Iraq. They spoke out after a jihadist, with a British accent, murdered US journalist James Foley - claiming it was in revenge for US air strikes . He said the West should continue ‘evening the game up’ by supplying weapons, mortars and rockets to the Kurdish Peshmerga soldiers, who are fighting IS. ‘The jihadists have got their hands on artillery and weapons looted from the Iraqi army, which has given them a huge advantage. We should now be arming the Peshmerga to even up the playing field.’ Sending more RAF reconnaissance planes to the troubled region ‘will always be useful’ in building up an intelligence picture of the fanatics. Sir Michael said UK Special Forces on the ground could be deployed on top-secret operations to inflict huge damage on advancing extremists. ‘What I think they can do, if they are working closely with the Peshmerga, and I’m sure they are, is conduct missions which require the jihadists to mass [in an area] and the moment they mass, you have got a target. Then you can send in bombers and do things to them that really spoil their day.’ Air Commodore Lambert, who commanded Allied forces in enforcing a no-fly zone over northern Iraq in 1999, said he believed Britain should put on a greater show of military strength to deter the jihadists. In responce to the shocking footage of Foley's beheading, which was titled 'A Message to U.S.', British Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond to vow Britain would 'oppose ISIS with every breath in our body' He said: ‘If you want me to make one criticism, it’s this: the scale of the operation is probably too small. When we had the no-fly zone, there were 50 or 60 aircraft. Symbolically it quite often is useful to give messages to people that if you have a robust package then people take you more seriously that you know what is going on.’ He said deploying more RAF planes with reconnaissance equipment would allow ‘continuous coverage’ of the battlefield, compared to only a few hours that the RAF can do at present. Air Commodore Lambert added: ‘Obviously, if the threat increases then I would expect the UK and US to increase the number of assets there.’ One of the British jihadists in the region, Nasser Muthana, is a 20-year-old former Cardiff schoolboy who featured prominently in Islamic State’s first professionally produced English-language propaganda video, which urged young Muslims in the West to join the terror group. Yesterday, Muthana mocked US efforts to defend Iraq’s Yazidi minority from genocide at the hands of IS militants, saying on Twitter they ‘can’t even protect their own citizens’. The young jihadist, who describes himself on Twitter as a ‘soldier of the Islamic State’, said last month the UK government should be ‘afraid’ of his bomb-making skills. Muthana has been joined in Syria by his younger brother Aseel, 17. The brothers, who grew up in Cardiff after their father moved there from Yemen as a teenager, are among hundreds of young Britons who have travelled to Syria to join the rebels. British Muslims must be stronger in their condemnation of jihadists and the hate preachers who recruit them, Islamic community leaders said yesterday. In the wake of US journalist James Foley’s brutal murder, they urged imams and mosques to do more to combat extremists – even if it means risking reprisals. Some imams have already made repeated appeals to radicalised youngsters not to join militants in the Middle East. The Muslim Council of Britain has urged Islamic communities to unite and tell the jihadists: ‘Not in our name.’ British Muslims must be stronger in their condemnation of jihadists and the hate preachers who recruit them, Islamic community leaders said yesterday. Including Dr Taj Hargey, director of the Muslim Educational Centre of Oxford . But critics have unfavourably compared the recent appeals, via open letters and YouTube videos, with the thousands-strong marches organised to protest Israel’s military action against Gaza, or the publication of a  cartoon of Mohammed in a Danish magazine. Dr Taj Hargey, director of the Muslim Educational Centre of Oxford, said: ‘This grotesque murder characterises Muslims as barbaric savages. If this senseless killing doesn’t change people’s attitudes, what will? ‘In the UK the majority of the Muslim population are Sunni and the Sunni group has been remarkably silent about what is happening in Iraq. The time has now come for a mass outcry from mainstream Muslims, not only about this murder but also the persecution of the Iraqi Yazidis and Christians and the killing of other Muslims.’ Abu Muntasir, chief executive of the Muslim educational charity JIMAS, added that some religious leaders had been too slow to condemn the Islamic State terrorists due to fear of reprisals from extremists in Britain. He admitted: ‘In the past I have been more careful and shown restraint but enough is enough. ‘I’m prepared to take more risks to defy these evil people. I utterly condemn IS even if it puts me at personal risk, at danger of people coming to my home. I’m no longer prepared to be muted.’ He called on the Government to take tougher action against jihadists who travelled to Iraq or Syria to fight – despite having supported jihad himself in the past. The married father of 12 said he fought the Soviet-backed government in Afghanistan, but now believed fighters were driven by aggression, not religious devotion. He told the Daily Mail: ‘They seek guns and violence. It is not about jihad or religion, it is all pure escapism and adventure.’ Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of Manchester’s Ramadhan Foundation, said Britain would be at risk of terror attacks if radicalised fighters are allowed to return. He spoke out against IS, formerly known as ISIS, saying: ‘I utterly condemn the senseless and barbaric killing of James Foley by the terrorist group ISIS. ‘If this barbaric killing was not enough then the allegation that the beheading was carried out by a British citizen is deeply worrying for our nation.’ The Muslim Council of Britain released a statement saying: ‘Each day ISIS seeks to carry out an act more barbarous than the day before, craving the oxygen of publicity to give credibility to their heinous acts. ‘We condemn unreservedly their psychopathic violence, whether it is on minorities, on civilians or on fellow Muslims.’
A woman has been charged with reckless manslaughter after her boyfriend's mother tried to stop them fighting and suffered a fatal heart attack. Claudia Yanira Hernandez Soriano, 25, and Juan Francisco Martinez Rojas, 28, started punching and scratching each other after they returned to their Bergen, New Jersey home following a party early on Monday. When Ana Angelina Rojas-Jovel, 45, tried to break them up, Hernandez Soriano assaulted the woman, according to the Bergen County Prosecutor. 'During the assault, the victim apparently suffered a cardiac event which resulted in her death,' Prosecutor John L. Molinelli said in a statement. Fight: Claudia Yanira Hernandez Soriano, 25, above, and her boyfriend Juan Francisco Martinez Rojas, 28, started punching and scratching each other at their home on Monday when his mother intervened . Injured: Martinez Rojas' booking shot shows the scratches on his face from the domestic dispute . A seven-year-old child also witnessed the fight, according to the prosecutor, but he did not reveal the relationship between the adults and the youngster. Police responded to a 911 call from the apartment just after 4am on Monday and when they arrived, they found Rojas-Jovel dead on a bedroom floor. 'There were no obvious signs of trauma to the victim, however... the [couple] displayed signs of injury and appeared to have been involved in a domestic assault,' the prosecutor said. In their booking photos, both Hernandez Soriano and Martinez Rojas have scratches on their faces and necks. The pair were interviewed, as were the child and other residents. Scene: Soriano allegedly then assaulted the woman, Ana Angelina Rojas-Jovel, and she suffered a cardiac arrest at the first-floor apartment at the house (pictured) and died before police arrived at the scene . The Bergen County Medical Examiner's Office conducted an autopsy on Rojas-Jovel's body, but results were pending toxicology tests, the prosecutor said. Hernandez Soriano was charged with manslaughter, endangering the welfare of a child, domestic violence simple assault and hindering apprehension, according to authorities. Molinelli said Hernandez Soriano also hid evidence - but would not detail what it was - which investigators later recovered in a search at the crime scene. She was held at the Bergen County Jail on $250,000 bail. Martinez Rojas was also charged with child endangerment and domestic violence simple assault and sent to the county jail on $75,000 bail. A court hearing has been scheduled for Thursday morning at Hackensack Superior Court.
Beirut (CNN) -- Syria carried out an airstrike on a refugee camp in northern Lebanon Saturday, killing nine Syrians and wounding nine more, a Lebanese state-run news agency reported. The strike centered on a Syrian refugee camp located near the Syrian border between the towns of Baalbeck and Arsal in the Bekaa Valley, the National News Agency said. The Red Cross took the casualties to Universal Hospital in Baalbek. Saturday's strike was not the first by the Syrian government, which has accused rebels of smuggling arms and supplies across the border. On March 18, two Syrian jets fired three rockets that hit empty buildings near Arsal. At the time, a U.S. State Department spokeswoman called the use of fighter jets to fire rockets into Lebanon a "significant escalation." U.N. commissioner wants to probe into whether Syrian rebels executed soldiers . Also in March, the U.N. Security Council voiced "grave concern over repeated incidents of cross-border fire which caused death and injury among the Lebanese population, incursions, abductions and arms trafficking across the Lebanese-Syrian border, as well as other border violations." The declaration followed a briefing by officials on how the conflict in Syria has spilled into Lebanon. More than 600,000 Syrians have fled to neighboring Lebanon, a country of about 4 million people, according to a U.N. estimate. But the Lebanese government puts the total at more than 1 million. Whatever the true figure, there is no dispute that the influx has destabilized the area and heightened tensions. The attack comes as the Syrian conflict is mired in a third year of unrest, which started in March 2011 when President Bashar al-Assad cracked down on peaceful protesters. Since then, it has evolved into a civil war that has killed more than 100,000 and transformed more than 1 million others into refugees, according to the Red Cross. Read more: U.N. inspectors heading to Syria to probe chemical weapons reports . CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported this story from Beirut, and Tom Watkins wrote it in Atlanta. CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali and Yousuf Basil contributed to this report .