url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c4ge3561x35o
article:Florida woman convicted of fatally shooting neighbour through doorMarion County Sheriff's Office Susan Lorincz seen at the time of her initial arrestA woman who fatally shot her neighbour through her front door in June 2023 has been convicted of manslaughter by a Florida jury. Susan Lorincz, 60, who is white, shot 35-year-old Ajike "AJ" Owens, who was black, as she knocked at Lorincz's door over a dispute about children playing outside. Lawyers for Lorincz argued that she fired in self-defence. According to Owens' family and an arrest affidavit, Lorincz had shouted racial epithets at Owens' children prior to the shooting. The incident came in the wake of a series of quarrels between the two women that had seen police called at least six times since January 2021.Lorincz was inside her home when she opened fire with a handgun, striking Owens in the chest. The incident is believed to have stemmed from an altercation earlier in the day in which Lorincz shouted at Owens' children and struck one of them with a pair of skates. Prosecutors had argued that there was no immediate threat to Lorincz's safety when she fired through her locked metal door, knowing that Owens was on the other side. Prosecutor Rich Buxman said the accused had acted with “utter disregard for the life of others". “She pointed a loaded firearm towards a door, towards a person that she knew was there in the opposite side of the door and intentionally pulled the trigger. That shows a reckless disregard for human life,” he told jurors, according to CNN. The all-white Florida jury reached its verdict after less than three hours of deliberations on Friday. The trial lasted one week. Lorincz will be sentenced at a later date and faces up to 30 years in jail. Owens' mother swiftly praised the ruling, according to reporters in court. "Oh God, thank you, Jesus!" said Pamela Dias. Owens leaves behind four children, ages four through 13.Family handout Ajike "AJ" Owens leave behind four children
summary:A woman in Florida was found guilty of manslaughter for fatally shooting her neighbor through the front door during a dispute. The incident, involving racial epithets, occurred after a series of conflicts between the two women. The accused, Susan Lorincz, fired at Ajike "AJ" Owens, who was knocking on her door, claiming self-defense. However, prosecutors argued there was no immediate threat to Lorincz when she shot through the door. The jury, all white, deliberated for less than three hours before reaching a verdict. Lorincz faces up to 30 years in jail and the victim, AJ Owens, leaves behind four children.
age:
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:New Zealand
metro:Metro
income:Under $30K
