url:https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/the-kmart-pjs-shoppers-are-obsessed-with-comparing-them-to-high-end-options-c-15671937
article:Shoppers are obsessed with new sets of Kmart pyjamas and are comparing them to high-end options like Kim Kardashian\’s brand SKIMS. Sal and Al from the podcast Two Broke Chicks recently shared a now-viral video to their Instagram page discussing the Kmart pyjamas in question. “Kmart pyjamas have come to slay. People are loving these pyjamas because they are so affordable and the quality is chef\’s kiss,” explained the girls. “They\’re also cute which is also important. It\’s interesting because Kmart actually have a stronger sustainability score than SKIMS, but the SKIMS ones are around $200.” Kmart\’s pyjamas start at $12 and come in a range of different styles, colours and sizes. The Pointelle Cami Romper for $15 has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website. Shoppers are saying “it\’s so comfy to sleep in” and is made from elastane and cotton with pointelle fabric. Another popular pyjama set from Kmart is the Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set, which is $22. The set comes in either blue or pink and is made from a combination of polyester, viscose, elastane and single jersey fabric. The pyjama set also has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website and shoppers are saying they are “so soft and comfy”. Sal and Al\’s video about the PJs received more than 180,000 views and people in the comments were quick to agree with them. “Not me wearing mine while watching this,” said one. “They are honestly so darn comfy,” added a second. “Can confirm these pyjamas are amazing,” said a third. “I have them, hands down the best pyjamas I\’ve ever purchased, so comfy,” added another.
summary:Australian shoppers are raving about the chic and affordable pyjama sets from Kmart, with some even comparing them to high-end brands like SKIMS. The pyjamas are not only stylish but also highly praised for their quality and comfort. With prices starting at just $12, these pyjamas are a steal compared to more expensive alternatives. Popular sets include the Pointelle Cami Romper and Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set, both receiving glowing five-star ratings from customers. A viral video by the Two Broke Chicks podcast hosts Sal and Al discussing these Kmart gems has garnered over 180,000 views, with many viewers echoing their praises for the irresistibly comfy sleepwear.
age:35-65
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:Australia
metro:Metro
income:$100K+
