url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cdd7enz9r0qo
article:Woman charged in alleged plan to steal Elvis's GracelandInside Elvis Presley's Graceland home in TennesseeA Missouri woman is accused of trying to defraud Elvis Presley's family of millions of dollars and steal the family's ownership interest in Graceland, the US singing legend's family home. Lisa Jeanine Findley, who used a variety of aliases, was arrested for allegedly orchestrating a scheme to conduct a fraudulent sale of Graceland, located in Memphis, Tennessee home. Ms Findley, 53, was federally charged with mail fraud and aggravated identity theft and was expected to appear in court Friday. If convicted, she could face up to 20 years in prison. The Presley family has not publicly commented on the charges.The US Justice Department claims Ms Findley posed as three different individuals associated with a fictitious private lender called Naussany Investments & Private Lending LLC (Naussany Investments). The DOJ alleges she falsely claimed Elvis Presley's daughter - Lisa Marie Presley, who died in January 2023 - had borrowed $3.8m (£3m) from Naussany Investments, pledged Graceland as collateral for the loan and failed to repay the debt. Ms Findley allegedly was seeking $2.85m ($2.2m GBP) from Presley's family to settle the alleged debt, according to the DOJ.police handout
summary:A woman in Missouri faces charges for an attempt to defraud Elvis Presley's family and seize ownership of Graceland, the legendary singer's home in Tennessee. Lisa Jeanine Findley, 53, used fake identities to orchestrate a scam to sell Graceland fraudulently. She faces serious charges of mail fraud and identity theft, with a potential 20-year jail sentence. The Presley family has not commented on the situation. The US Justice Department claims that Findley posed as individuals associated with a fake lender, trying to extort money from the family by falsely claiming a debt owed by Elvis's late daughter.
age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:England
metro:
income:
