url:https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/the-kmart-pjs-shoppers-are-obsessed-with-comparing-them-to-high-end-options-c-15671937
article:Shoppers are obsessed with new sets of Kmart pyjamas and are comparing them to high-end options like Kim Kardashian\’s brand SKIMS. Sal and Al from the podcast Two Broke Chicks recently shared a now-viral video to their Instagram page discussing the Kmart pyjamas in question. “Kmart pyjamas have come to slay. People are loving these pyjamas because they are so affordable and the quality is chef\’s kiss,” explained the girls. “They\’re also cute which is also important. It\’s interesting because Kmart actually have a stronger sustainability score than SKIMS, but the SKIMS ones are around $200.” Kmart\’s pyjamas start at $12 and come in a range of different styles, colours and sizes. The Pointelle Cami Romper for $15 has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website. Shoppers are saying “it\’s so comfy to sleep in” and is made from elastane and cotton with pointelle fabric. Another popular pyjama set from Kmart is the Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set, which is $22. The set comes in either blue or pink and is made from a combination of polyester, viscose, elastane and single jersey fabric. The pyjama set also has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website and shoppers are saying they are “so soft and comfy”. Sal and Al\’s video about the PJs received more than 180,000 views and people in the comments were quick to agree with them. “Not me wearing mine while watching this,” said one. “They are honestly so darn comfy,” added a second. “Can confirm these pyjamas are amazing,” said a third. “I have them, hands down the best pyjamas I\’ve ever purchased, so comfy,” added another.
summary:Shoppers in the UK are loving the new range of affordable and stylish pyjamas from Kmart, with some even comparing them to high-end brands like SKIMS. The podcast Two Broke Chicks shared a viral video on Instagram praising the quality and affordability of Kmart pyjamas, which are starting at just $12. Customers are raving about the comfort and quality of these sets, with some stating they are the best pyjamas they have ever owned. These pyjamas are not only cozy to sleep in but are also receiving high sustainability scores, making them a popular and budget-friendly choice for many.
age:15-35
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:England
metro:Metro
income:$100K+
