url:https://www.news.com.au/entertainment/movies/scarface-actor-angel-salazar-found-dead/news-story/074528178c32a6700914853e1a328b38
article:Scarface actor Ángel Salazar has died at the age of 68. Though best known as Al Pacino\’s trusted sidekick Chi Chi in the Brian DePalma-directed gangster film, Salazar had a long and prolific career. Salazar\’s rep and closest friend, Ann Wingsong revealed that the actor died in his sleep at his friend\’s Brooklyn home over the weekend, per TMZ. Wingsong told the outlet that on Sunday morning, the friend went to check on Salazar in a room and found his body in bed. The cause of death was not disclosed, but the rep said Salazar suffered from heart issues. The Cuban-American comedian and actor was known for saying “Sheck it out” before, during, and after jokes during his stand-up routine. Only five roles into his acting career, Salazar landed the part of Chi Chi, the devoted henchman of Pacino\’s Tony Montana in the 1983 cult classic Scarface. Fans of the film will forever remember Chi Chi saving Tony\’s life during the suspenseful and bloody “chainsaw scene.” They\’ll also find it hard to forget Chi Chi\’s demise when his back gets filled with lead thanks to a hit squad hired by drug kingpin Alejandro Sosa (Paul Shenar). Salazar later worked opposite Tom Hanks in the 1988 David Seltzer-directed dramedy, Punchline. he story revolves around a talented young comic who helps a housewife break into stand-up comedy. Salazar, a comedian in real life, appeared on Last Comic Standing and numerous HBO comedy specials The comedian/actor would reteam with Pacino and DePalma in the 1993 crime drama Carlito\’s Way. Other notable credits include Walk Proud, The Wild Life, Sylvester, Hot to Trot, and Maniac Cop 2, among other titles. Salazar\’s last credited roles were in 2022\’s The Black Ceaser and 2023\’s The Gilbert Diaries: The Movie.
summary:Actor Ángel Salazar, known for his role as Chi Chi in the movie Scarface, has passed away at the age of 68. His friend found him peacefully in Brooklyn. Salazar's comedic catchphrase was "Sheck it out." He had a diverse career, including appearing in Punchline with Tom Hanks and reuniting with Al Pacino in Carlito's Way. Salazar had a number of film credits and made his mark in the entertainment industry.
age:
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:
income:$30K-$100K
