url:https://7news.com.au/news/marourbra-beachgoers-slammed-over-little-known-illegal-act-with-fur-seal--c-15672355
article:A group of visitors to a popular beach in Sydney\’s eastern suburbs are being slammed over an alleged illegal act with local wildlife. The beachgoers were seen at Maroubra\’s North End gathering around and taking photos of a fur seal on the rocks. An image, shared to social media by Barry Ion, showed a dozen people gathered just metres away from the animal and appearing to be well inside the minimum legal distance. “People are getting way too close, some almost touching it. It\’s intimidating and it can attack,” Barry said. The act outraged locals on social media, who shared their disappointment in the group\’s behaviour. “Bloody humans can\’t help themselves! Stay away!” one person said. “Let the animal be in its natural environment!” another added. “Please respect and don\’t scare the seal,” a third said. In NSW, there is a legal distance people must keep from seals under the Biodiversity Conservation Regulation 2017. According to the NSW Parks and Wildlife Service, approach distances for seals are based on where the seal is located and if a pup is present. “A seal is considered a pup if it is up to half the length of the adult,” NPWS said. \’”If a seal comes towards you, you must move back to the minimum approach distance.” When a seal is on the land, you must keep at least: 40m away from the seal 80m from a seal pup 100m away from the seal for a drone Meanwhile, the Organisation for the Rescue and Research of Cetaceans in Australia (ORRCA) said earlier in the month it was responding to a high number of seals coming ashore due to the current extreme rough ocean conditions. “We are monitoring seals from the South Coast to Northern NSW,” they said. “We ask that especially during the next few days, if you are out near the ocean, please keep a lookout for any seals.” 7NEWS.com.au has reached out to NPWS for further information.
summary:Beachgoers at Maroubra’s North End in Sydney recently faced backlash for approaching a fur seal too closely and taking photos. Standing only a few meters away, some individuals almost touched the seal, which can lead to dangerous situations. This behavior upset local residents and wildlife advocates who stressed the importance of respecting the natural environment and wildlife's space. Laws mandate specific distances from seals to ensure their safety and yours. During rough ocean conditions, organizations urge people to be vigilant and report any seals coming ashore. Remember to give these animals space and enjoy observing them from a safe distance.
age:65+
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:Metro
income:$100K+
