url:https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/the-kmart-pjs-shoppers-are-obsessed-with-comparing-them-to-high-end-options-c-15671937
article:Shoppers are obsessed with new sets of Kmart pyjamas and are comparing them to high-end options like Kim Kardashian\’s brand SKIMS. Sal and Al from the podcast Two Broke Chicks recently shared a now-viral video to their Instagram page discussing the Kmart pyjamas in question. “Kmart pyjamas have come to slay. People are loving these pyjamas because they are so affordable and the quality is chef\’s kiss,” explained the girls. “They\’re also cute which is also important. It\’s interesting because Kmart actually have a stronger sustainability score than SKIMS, but the SKIMS ones are around $200.” Kmart\’s pyjamas start at $12 and come in a range of different styles, colours and sizes. The Pointelle Cami Romper for $15 has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website. Shoppers are saying “it\’s so comfy to sleep in” and is made from elastane and cotton with pointelle fabric. Another popular pyjama set from Kmart is the Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set, which is $22. The set comes in either blue or pink and is made from a combination of polyester, viscose, elastane and single jersey fabric. The pyjama set also has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website and shoppers are saying they are “so soft and comfy”. Sal and Al\’s video about the PJs received more than 180,000 views and people in the comments were quick to agree with them. “Not me wearing mine while watching this,” said one. “They are honestly so darn comfy,” added a second. “Can confirm these pyjamas are amazing,” said a third. “I have them, hands down the best pyjamas I\’ve ever purchased, so comfy,” added another.
summary:People are going crazy over Kmart's new line of pyjamas, comparing them to high-end brands like SKIMS. The pyjamas are affordable, with prices starting at $12, and have received rave reviews for their comfort, quality, and cute styles. The popularity of Kmart's pyjamas skyrocketed after the Two Broke Chicks podcast hosts, Sal and Al, made a viral video praising the pyjamas' affordability and sustainability compared to more expensive options. Shoppers are loving the various styles and colors available, with some sets even receiving five-star ratings on Kmart's website. Comments on the video express delight at how soft and comfortable the pyjamas are, solidifying their reputation as a must-have item for a cozy night's sleep.
age:15-35
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:England
metro:Regional
income:
