url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8697305/ironman-703-wa-hits-capacity-limited-entries-left-for-main-ironman/?cs=1435
article:THE IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached capacity, with limited entries remaining for IRONMAN Western Australia, set to be held on the same day, December 1 2024. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, said IRONMAN 70.3 WA continued to be popular with athletes from all over the world. "We\’re thrilled with the response from athletes... which means we have put up the sold-out sign for this year\’s event, with the only way that athletes can now be involved being through the IRONMAN race," he said. "Athletes from across Australia and around the world are set to make their way to Busselton for this event that is on the bucket list of so many triathletes. "It\’s easy to see why this event is popular, from the incredible swim that goes alongside and under the historic Jetty, to the flat and fast bike course and the run that is lined with cheering spectators." Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin said the sellout was a salute to organisers and the region. "Don\’t despair if you missed out, there\’s still opportunity for triathletes to participate in Busselton for 2024 by signing up for the IRONMAN race, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary in beautiful Busselton," he said.
summary:The IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached full capacity, with only limited spots left for the IRONMAN Western Australia event on December 1, 2024. The race is set to be a thrilling event that attracts athletes from all over the world. The beautiful swim course, fast bike track, and energetic cheering squad make it an event triathletes don't want to miss. Although the 70.3 event is sold out, there's still a chance to participate in the IRONMAN race. Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin encourages those who missed out to take part in the 20th anniversary celebration of the IRONMAN race in the stunning city of Busselton.
age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:
metro:Metro
income:Under $30K
