url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8697305/ironman-703-wa-hits-capacity-limited-entries-left-for-main-ironman/?cs=1435
article:THE IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached capacity, with limited entries remaining for IRONMAN Western Australia, set to be held on the same day, December 1 2024. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, said IRONMAN 70.3 WA continued to be popular with athletes from all over the world. "We\’re thrilled with the response from athletes... which means we have put up the sold-out sign for this year\’s event, with the only way that athletes can now be involved being through the IRONMAN race," he said. "Athletes from across Australia and around the world are set to make their way to Busselton for this event that is on the bucket list of so many triathletes. "It\’s easy to see why this event is popular, from the incredible swim that goes alongside and under the historic Jetty, to the flat and fast bike course and the run that is lined with cheering spectators." Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin said the sellout was a salute to organisers and the region. "Don\’t despair if you missed out, there\’s still opportunity for triathletes to participate in Busselton for 2024 by signing up for the IRONMAN race, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary in beautiful Busselton," he said.
summary:The IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship is now fully booked, but there are still limited spots available for the IRONMAN Western Australia event on December 1, 2024. This iconic triathlon event in Busselton attracts athletes from around the globe. The event, renowned for its unique swim under the historic Jetty, fast bike course, and lively run, is a must-do for many triathletes. If you missed out on the 70.3 event, there's still a chance to participate in the full IRONMAN race. So, gear up for an unforgettable experience and join the action in beautiful Busselton for the 20th anniversary celebration!
age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:Australia
metro:Metro
income:$100K+
