url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8697305/ironman-703-wa-hits-capacity-limited-entries-left-for-main-ironman/?cs=1435
article:THE IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached capacity, with limited entries remaining for IRONMAN Western Australia, set to be held on the same day, December 1 2024. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, said IRONMAN 70.3 WA continued to be popular with athletes from all over the world. "We\’re thrilled with the response from athletes... which means we have put up the sold-out sign for this year\’s event, with the only way that athletes can now be involved being through the IRONMAN race," he said. "Athletes from across Australia and around the world are set to make their way to Busselton for this event that is on the bucket list of so many triathletes. "It\’s easy to see why this event is popular, from the incredible swim that goes alongside and under the historic Jetty, to the flat and fast bike course and the run that is lined with cheering spectators." Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin said the sellout was a salute to organisers and the region. "Don\’t despair if you missed out, there\’s still opportunity for triathletes to participate in Busselton for 2024 by signing up for the IRONMAN race, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary in beautiful Busselton," he said.
summary:The upcoming IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship is at full capacity, with limited spots left for the IRONMAN Western Australia event, both scheduled for December 1, 2024. Geoff Meyer from The IRONMAN Group expressed excitement over the overwhelming athlete response from around the globe. Athletes from Australia and beyond are gearing up for this prestigious event that includes a picturesque swim, a rapid bike course, and a lively run route. While the 70.3 event is sold out, opportunities remain for athletes to join the IRONMAN race. Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin commended organizers and the region for a successful event and invites triathletes not to miss out on the chance to be part of the action in 2024.
age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:Australia
metro:Regional
income:
