url:https://7news.com.au/news/the-20k-that-colac-teen-noah-saved-while-couch-surfing-wasnt-enough-for-a-home-but-that-didnt-stop-him-c-15328771
article:At just 19 years old, Noah* had already lived a “tough life”. That was the assessment of NAB Bank customer advisor Rae Mulgrew, who was in the Colac branch, 150km southwest of Melbourne, when Noah walked in looking to buy a home. He hadn\’t had a place to call his own for years, but had diligently saved up thousands of dollars as he slept on couches. It was a sum of money he soon discovered still wasn\’t enough for a house deposit. That was before he was accepted into a government-run home buying scheme, under which another 35,000 places have opened up from July 1. A further 10,000 have been reserved for regional Australians like Noah, and another 5000 places reserved for single parents. Noah had $20,000 to his name when Mulgrew met him. “(But) even after saving every cent he made, he was still short of the 20 per cent deposit he thought he needed to secure a home loan,” she said. His journey towards homeownership wasn\’t thwarted so easily. Mulgrew and the manager of the Colac branch, Louise Morrissy, worked for months to help Noah secure a spot in the Regional First Home Buyer Guarantee scheme. And the regional banking staff would later go beyond their professional responsibility to care for the young homebuyer — with a heartwarming gesture of support. “We have a strong connection to our community, and we really care for all the customers that walk through our door in Colac,” Morrisy said. The Home Guarantee Scheme is a government initiative that helps first home buyers, or buyers who have not owned a property over the past 10 years, to buy a home. It allows them to enter the market with a deposit of as little as 5 per cent, and without lenders mortgage insurance. Noah would become one of 1,600 regional, first-home buyers who NAB helped under the scheme last financial year. “Noah was determined to reach his goal of having his own place,” Mulgrew said. “He had no idea about the scheme when he first walked in. “Without it, he wouldn\’t have been able to get his foot on the property ladder.” Morrissy added: “We were by Noah\’s side every step of the way, walking him through the services he needed to engage in buying the property.” In true regional community-style, the Colac NAB team collected a care package full of items to congratulate Noah when he eventually received the keys to his first home. “We made up a little hamper of cups, saucers, sheets, you name it, just to get him started,” Morrissy said. “He kept telling me he couldn\’t give me anything in return, but I didn\’t want anything. “I just wanted to know he was settled and safe in his new home.” Mulgrew said: “The team in the branch felt we had to do something to make sure his house felt like a home.” For young, regional-based Australians looking for safe and secure housing, she said the scheme was empowering. “It makes the Australian dream achievable,” she said. To find out more about the eligibility requirements for the First Home Guarantee, the Regional First Home Buyer Guarantee, and the Family Home Guarantee, visit the Housing Australia website or get in touch with a lender for advice.
summary:A young man named Noah faced challenges in finding a home despite saving diligently. A government program helped him buy a home with a smaller deposit. The bank staff in Colac helped Noah secure a place in the program and even went beyond to support him. This scheme allows people to buy homes with a lower deposit and without extra insurance. Noah was able to achieve his dream of owning a home with the help of caring community members. This program is beneficial for young, rural Australians seeking homeownership. For more information, visit the Housing Australia website or talk to a lender for guidance.
age:Under 15
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:Regional
income:Under $30K
