url:https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/more-doctors-need-voluntary-assisted-dying-training-report-recommends/4n39rjb2r
article:Terminally-ill Australians opting to end their lives using voluntary assisted dying still make up a small sliver of total deaths, yet growing demand has prompted calls to streamline the process and bolster the workforce. In a landmark Go Gentle Australia report into voluntary assisted dying — now legal in every jurisdiction except the Northern Territory — 2,460 people were found to have opted to end their lives with the service. In 2017, Victoria became the first state to legalise voluntary assisted dying, intended for those with a terminal illness suffering immense pain and wanting control over the circumstances of their death. Chief executive officer of the charity, Linda Swan said the evidence painted a "reassuring picture of systems fulfilling their aim" with health professionals providing "kind and meticulous" support. "None of the dire predictions from opponents have come to pass and systems are working safely and with great compassion," she said. The typical applicant was in their 70s with a terminal cancer diagnosis and were slightly more likely to be male, the report found. Applicants were usually well-educated, English speakers, and four in five were receiving palliative care. Applicants were three times more likely to die at home. While voluntary assisted dying only made up somewhere between 0.5 per cent and 1.6 per cent in total deaths, demand was growing and there were still a number of barriers to access. While a "person-directed" process, Swan said it was not clear if there was the right balance between safeguards and accessibility. "Gag clauses" in South Australia and Victoria, which prevent health professionals from raising the option with patients, meant many did not know about the option. "No other health care requires patients to know their treatment options before consulting a doctor," Swan said. More health professionals needed to be encouraged to complete the voluntary assisted dying training, with the report recommending they be fairly compensated. Seventeen health bodies, including the Pharmaceutical Society of Australia and the Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation, were calling for reform to the Commonwealth Criminal Code so people could use phone, email and telehealth as part of the process. Existing rules force applicants to attend all appointments in person, which is particularly burdensome for those living in regional or remote areas.
summary:Reports show that a growing number of people in Australia are choosing voluntary assisted dying as a way to end their lives due to terminal illnesses. The process, legal in most regions, aims to offer individuals in severe pain with a terminal illness the choice to control their death circumstances. This service, available for those with a terminal cancer diagnosis, has seen those in their 70s, mainly males, opting for it, usually after receiving palliative care. Despite being a small percentage of all deaths, demand is increasing, prompting calls to make the process more accessible. Some barriers exist, like restrictions preventing health professionals from discussing the option with patients, leading to less awareness. Encouraging more health professionals to undergo training and compensating them fairly is important for the service's improvement. Additionally, reforms are urged to allow for remote consultations to assist those in rural areas.
age:65+
ed:PHD
nat:England
metro:Regional
income:$100K+
