url:https://thedailyaus.com.au/stories/high-profile-aussies-want-to-ban-gambling-ads/
article:High-profile Aussies are calling for a ban on gambling ads, including former prime ministers Malcolm Turnbull and John Howard. High-profile anti-gambling advocates, politicians and two former Prime Ministers have urged the Government to commit to stronger gambling reforms, including a ban on gambling ads. The Federal Government is expected to introduce legislation to restrict TV gambling ads. However, the proposed measures have been criticised for not going far enough, after a federal inquiry recommended banning them altogether. It coincides with a newly published list, which shows dozens of current MPs have accepted gifts from the gambling industry since 2019. A federal inquiry into gambling harms made 31 recommendations in June 2023. The “you win some, you lose more” report proposed a phased ban of all TV, radio, and online gambling ads within three years. The inquiry was led by Labor MP Peta Murphy, who died in December. Speaking in Parliament today, Independent MP Zoe Daniel quoted Murphy\’s husband, Rod Glover, as having urged the Government to “put people first” and implement the recommendations. The Government has not yet responded to the report\’s proposals. Last week, Nine newspapers reported that the Government was considering limiting gambling ads during sports broadcasts to two per hour. TDA reached out to Communications Minister Michelle Rowland, who did not directly address these reports, but said: “The status quo of online wagering advertising is untenable”. She added the Government was continuing to speak with “harm reduction advocates, health experts and industry” before it tables legislation in Parliament. Advocacy groups have intensified calls for the Government to ban all gambling ads. An open letter from the Alliance for Gambling Reform said a “tsunami” of “one million gambling ads” are shown on free-to-air TV and radio every year. The letter was signed by high-profile figures including former Coalition Prime Ministers John Howard and Malcolm Turnbull. The alliance described said a national “gambling addiction” is costing Australians $25 billion annually. Calls for gambling ad regulations coincide with new data about the volume of expensive gifts being given to politicians by the gambling industry. Federal MPs and Senators are legally required to declare any gifts from third parties worth more than $300. This can include sporting tickets and dinners. Declarations are recorded on the federal gift registry. Open Politics conducted an independent analysis of the gift registry. The volunteer-run organisation found that 48 current Coalition and Labor politicians have accepted gifts from the gambling industry since May 2019. The most publicly-declared gifts were given to Coalition MP Dan Tehan, at 31. Labor\’s Michelle Rowland – who oversees gambling in her ministerial duties – came in second, after she received 27 gifts from the gambling industry. In his budget reply speech last year, Opposition Leader Peter Dutton said he wanted to ban all gambling ads during sporting events. Zoe Daniel has also called for a total ban on betting ads. She is one of multiple crossbenchers pressuring the Government to introduce legislation urgently. “The government has to find the courage to stare down the corporate gambling giants, the media conglomerates, and the sporting codes, and do the right thing,” Daniel said. 
summary:The article discusses the push for stronger gambling reforms in Australia, including a ban on gambling ads. High-profile figures like former Prime Ministers Malcolm Turnbull and John Howard are urging the government to take action. A federal inquiry recommended banning all TV, radio, and online gambling ads within three years, but the proposed legislation falls short of this. The government is also facing scrutiny for accepting gifts from the gambling industry. Advocacy groups are calling for a complete ban on gambling ads to address the national gambling addiction, which costs Australians $25 billion annually. Politicians like Zoe Daniel are pressuring the government to act swiftly and prioritize the well-being of the people over corporate interests.
age:35-65
ed:High School
nat:
metro:
income:
