url:https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/the-kmart-pjs-shoppers-are-obsessed-with-comparing-them-to-high-end-options-c-15671937
article:Shoppers are obsessed with new sets of Kmart pyjamas and are comparing them to high-end options like Kim Kardashian\’s brand SKIMS. Sal and Al from the podcast Two Broke Chicks recently shared a now-viral video to their Instagram page discussing the Kmart pyjamas in question. “Kmart pyjamas have come to slay. People are loving these pyjamas because they are so affordable and the quality is chef\’s kiss,” explained the girls. “They\’re also cute which is also important. It\’s interesting because Kmart actually have a stronger sustainability score than SKIMS, but the SKIMS ones are around $200.” Kmart\’s pyjamas start at $12 and come in a range of different styles, colours and sizes. The Pointelle Cami Romper for $15 has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website. Shoppers are saying “it\’s so comfy to sleep in” and is made from elastane and cotton with pointelle fabric. Another popular pyjama set from Kmart is the Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set, which is $22. The set comes in either blue or pink and is made from a combination of polyester, viscose, elastane and single jersey fabric. The pyjama set also has a five-star rating on Kmart\’s website and shoppers are saying they are “so soft and comfy”. Sal and Al\’s video about the PJs received more than 180,000 views and people in the comments were quick to agree with them. “Not me wearing mine while watching this,” said one. “They are honestly so darn comfy,” added a second. “Can confirm these pyjamas are amazing,” said a third. “I have them, hands down the best pyjamas I\’ve ever purchased, so comfy,” added another.
summary:A recent viral video by Sal and Al from the podcast Two Broke Chicks has stirred up a frenzy among shoppers who are raving about the new line of affordable and stylish pyjamas from Kmart. These pyjamas are being compared to high-end options like SKIMS by Kim Kardashian, which cost around $200, while Kmart's range starts at just $12. Not only are the Kmart pyjamas budget-friendly, but they also boast high quality that customers are praising for its comfort and coziness. With options like the Pointelle Cami Romper for $15 and the Long Sleeve and Slouchy Shorts Pyjama set for $22, shoppers are giving these pyjamas top ratings for their softness and comfort. The video by Sal and Al has garnered over 180,000 views, with comments pouring in about how fantastic these pyjamas are. Customers are endorsing the Kmart pyjamas as some of the best they have ever purchased.
age:35-65
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:
income:$100K+
