url:https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-07-25/queensland-nickel-creditors-paid-clive-palmer-refinery-business/104138708
article:After eight years of financial heartbreak and court battles, the liquidator of Clive Palmer's former Queensland Nickel refinery says it has paid the company's creditors in full.  The Yabulu Nickel Refinery, owned by Queensland Nickel Industries, was the Townsville region's largest private employer when it collapsed in 2016, owing hundreds of millions of dollars. More than 700 workers lost their jobs. Liquidator FTI announced yesterday that outstanding creditors had been paid $300 million — a full settlement of claims, it said. FTI senior managing director Kelly Trenfield said when FTI was first appointed, it estimated QNI owed about $800 million. Many of those claims had been settled, removed or reduced over the past eight years. She said recovering the final $300 million owed to creditors had been a long process. "The thing that really got us was the number of people who were directly impacted, whether they were employees or direct suppliers," she said. "We were made very keenly aware of people's emotional involvement, there were employees who had worked there for decades." FTI said it had distributed federal government payments of $70 million to nearly all 787 former QNI employees. There were about 1,500 creditors in total, including local infrastructure suppliers including rail, power and ports, according to Ms Trenfield. In 2019, the Townsville City Council launched legal action to recover $2.5 million from QNI Metals Propriety Limited and QNI Resources, claiming the companies had not paid their rates or charges at the Yabalu refinery or a property since 2016. A spokesperson for the council confirmed yesterday that payment for outstanding rates and charges was received in August 2020. Queensland Nickel's liquidators had pursued Mr Palmer's companies since the QNI collapse, prompting lengthy court battles with the billionaire. Ms Trenfield said the largest amount of money recovered was $102 million, from Mr Palmer's company Mineralogy. She said there were court proceedings to be finalised before the liquidation could conclude, but indicated the end was in sight. "It's so nice to see a complete payment back to creditors even if it has taken eight years," she said. In 2022, Mr Palmer sold the Yabulu refinery to Swiss buyers, sparking hope the refinery would be fired back up within 18 months.  But the future of the operation remains unclear. Monash University critical minerals researcher Professor David Whittle said any company looking to revive the operation faced an uphill battle. Earlier this month, mining giant BHP announced it was putting its WA nickel mines on ice for at least three years, blaming an "oversupply in the global nickel market. Professor Whittle said Australian nickel producers faced increasing competition from low-cost producers in Russia and Indonesia. "It's very challenging, nickel prices are famously volatile," he said. "Back in 2007 it got up to $50,000 per tonne. It's around $16,000 a tonne now. It's been as low as $5,000 a tonne.
summary:After years of struggle, the Queensland Nickel refinery has finally paid off all its creditors, totaling $300 million. The refinery's collapse in 2016 left many jobless and owed hundreds of millions. The liquidator, FTI, managed to settle outstanding claims, including payments to former employees and local suppliers. Despite legal battles with the refinery's previous owner, Clive Palmer, progress has been made. However, the future of the refinery remains uncertain due to global market dynamics. The nickel industry continues to face challenges, with increasing competition from low-cost producers in other countries affecting prices.
age:65+
ed:
nat:United States
metro:
income:Under $30K
