url:https://7news.com.au/news/marourbra-beachgoers-slammed-over-little-known-illegal-act-with-fur-seal--c-15672355
article:A group of visitors to a popular beach in Sydney\’s eastern suburbs are being slammed over an alleged illegal act with local wildlife. The beachgoers were seen at Maroubra\’s North End gathering around and taking photos of a fur seal on the rocks. An image, shared to social media by Barry Ion, showed a dozen people gathered just metres away from the animal and appearing to be well inside the minimum legal distance. “People are getting way too close, some almost touching it. It\’s intimidating and it can attack,” Barry said. The act outraged locals on social media, who shared their disappointment in the group\’s behaviour. “Bloody humans can\’t help themselves! Stay away!” one person said. “Let the animal be in its natural environment!” another added. “Please respect and don\’t scare the seal,” a third said. In NSW, there is a legal distance people must keep from seals under the Biodiversity Conservation Regulation 2017. According to the NSW Parks and Wildlife Service, approach distances for seals are based on where the seal is located and if a pup is present. “A seal is considered a pup if it is up to half the length of the adult,” NPWS said. \’”If a seal comes towards you, you must move back to the minimum approach distance.” When a seal is on the land, you must keep at least: 40m away from the seal 80m from a seal pup 100m away from the seal for a drone Meanwhile, the Organisation for the Rescue and Research of Cetaceans in Australia (ORRCA) said earlier in the month it was responding to a high number of seals coming ashore due to the current extreme rough ocean conditions. “We are monitoring seals from the South Coast to Northern NSW,” they said. “We ask that especially during the next few days, if you are out near the ocean, please keep a lookout for any seals.” 7NEWS.com.au has reached out to NPWS for further information.
summary:Visitors to a beach in Sydney have come under fire for getting too close to a fur seal, which can potentially lead to dangerous situations. Local wildlife experts remind people to maintain a safe distance from seals to avoid upsetting them and causing harm. The law in NSW specifies specific distances that must be kept from seals to protect both the animals and people. It's important to respect wildlife and let them be in their natural environment to prevent any negative encounters.
age:65+
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:
income:Under $30K
