url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8708489/paris-olympics-live-day-16-as-opals-play-for-bronze-on-last-day-of-games/?cs=1435
article:Au revoir Paris, merci beaucoup! What an Olympic Games! From a float down the Seine, to Tom Cruise rappelling off the roof of the Stade de France, the 2024 Games have been full of memories and moments. And for Australia, those moments came thick and fast. Our best Games in history, 18 gold, 19 silver and 16 bronze. Our best overseas haul of 53 medals, finishing fourth on the tally board overall. There was only one day out of the 17 where we didn\’t win a medal of some sort. We cried alongside BMX rider Saya Sakakibara winning gold as a tribute to her family, we all wanted to adopt 14-year-old skateboader Arisa Trew, we flew over the bar with pole vaulter Nina Kennedy, kangaroo hopped with break dancer Raygun - who even gave an impromptu performance to the roars of her Australian teammates before the closing ceremony. Perhaps Paris 2024 president Tony Estanguet summed the Games up best with this description at the closing ceremony. "[It was] heart-racing, head-spinning, screaming, crying, crazy love," he said. "One day, life is normal, the next it feels magical. It\’s what we have felt since July 24." "We knew you would be brilliant, but you were magic. The most difficult part of any love affair is saying goodbye, so of course we don\’t want it to end." IOC President Thomas Bach added: "Despite all the tensions in our world, you made the City of Light shine brighter than ever before. Thank you for making us believe in a better world for everyone. Perhaps Paris 2024 president Tony Estanguet summed the Games up best with this description at the closing ceremony. "[It was] heart-racing, head-spinning, screaming, crying, crazy love," he said. "One day, life is normal, the next it feels magical. It\’s what we have felt since July 24." "We knew you would be brilliant, but you were magic. The most difficult part of any love affair is saying goodbye, so of course we don\’t want it to end." IOC President Thomas Bach added: "Despite all the tensions in our world, you made the City of Light shine brighter than ever before. Thank you for making us believe in a better world for everyone. But these Games have been about more than that. There have been steps forward in terms of gender equality and sustainability. And Paris just looked great. Cruise did his best to steal the show at an extraordinary au revoir to the Paris Olympics, descending from the top of the Stade de France on a cable to mark the handover of hosting duties to Los Angeles 2028. Yet even Hollywood\’s biggest superstar must have known his splendid cameo at the closing ceremony couldn\’t possibly upstage the most magnifique of all Olympics. For LA, it should be known - that\’s Mission Impossible. But what a way to end two fantastic weeks in the French capital. The 62-year-old\’s daredevil act on Sunday night was cheered to the rafters that he\’d abseiled from by 80,000 cheering supporters, and thousands more of the world\’s best athletes who\’d thronged to France\’s national stadium. They included a huge contingent from Australia\’s record-breaking team, revelling one last time as they prepared to bring home a record 18 gold medals. They were led by their flagbearers, 28-year-old repeat champion sailor Matt Wearn, who\’d achieved his victory in the Marseille regatta, and double gold medallist from the pool, the great Kaylee McKeown. And in the parade of champions there were a host of their other victors, including golden girl, double canoe slalom champion Jess Fox, later introduced as one of the new members of the IOC Athletes Commission. The Aussies were in understandably buoyant mood, dancing on the track to \’Freed from Desire\’, amid the extraordinary sight of the world\’s best sportsmen and women bouncing up and down in unison to the Gala hit. But after another spectacular son et lumiere show on the theme of Olympic records, fresh from the vivid imagination of creative director Thomas Jolly, whose opening ceremony had caused plenty of waves, the fun really only started properly when the handover to LA began. Still, Cruise wasn\’t the biggest star of the night for the home audience, who broke into cheers and chants of "Leon, Leon!" when Paris 2024\’s equivalent of Cathy Freeman in 2000, golden swimmer Leon Marchand, turned up with the flame. Now it\’s all done and dusted. But we\’ll always have Paris!
summary:The 2024 Olympics in Paris were filled with unforgettable moments and achievements for Australian athletes. With a record-breaking performance, Australia earned 18 gold, 19 silver, and 16 bronze medals, making it our best overseas Games yet. From heartwarming victories like Saya Sakakibara's BMX gold to impressive performances by young talents like 14-year-old skateboarder Arisa Trew, the Games were full of magic and emotion. The closing ceremony was a spectacular celebration, culminating in a memorable handover to Los Angeles for the 2028 Games. Despite the end of this incredible event, the spirit and excitement of Paris 2024 will always be cherished.
age:
ed:High School
nat:New Zealand
metro:Metro
income:$100K+
