url:https://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/food/eat/7eleven-expands-fan-favourite-item-to-two-more-states/news-story/78e88a7a043ca917302c2927621b23e8
article:This popular Japanese item is popping up in more 7-Eleven stores than ever before — and Aussies are hoping it\’s a sign of more things to come. A social media user took to Reddit to express their excitement at finding teriyaki chicken onigiri at a 7-Eleven store. “Japanese food starting to pop up at 7/11 since the Japanese 7/11 buyout,” they captioned the image. Others were over the moon at the discovery. “This is the best news I\’ve heard in a while. Japanese 7/11 is incredible,” one commented. Onigiri is now available in more 7-Eleven stores. Another said, “These are delicious.” However, it turns out it has nothing to do with new 7-Eleven Australia being purchased by 7-Eleven International. Onigiri has been a staple of 7-Eleven stores in Victoria for years, and the popular item has now made its way up the east coast. “Our 7-Eleven Onigiri, like our other sushi, is delivered fresh daily,” a 7-Eleven spokesperson told news.com.au. “The onigiri are $3.70 and are available in three flavours Cooked Spicy Tuna, Chicken Teriyaki or Sweet Chilli Salmon. They have been available in Victoria for quite a few years, and launched in New South Wales and Queensland (other than Cairns and Townsville) over the last few months.” 7-Eleven International LLC announced in April that it had successfully acquired 7-Eleven Australia, adding 750 stores to its network. Aussies are hoping it means more Japanese products. Many speculated the takeover would transform the convenience store\’s food offerings, with social media users hoping it would take notes from the Japanese version of the chain. “Bring on the little pancakes in a packet,” one social media user pleaded. Another added, “I\’m so happy, I hope Japan purges the Australian market of bland food.” The 7-Eleven spokesperson said the Australian chain had a “long-term focus on our food offerings”. “Now as part of the 7-Eleven International network we are looking forward to working more closely with our international counterparts to grow our food offer,” they said. “Without question, 7-Eleven Japan has one of the best food offers in convenience in the world, so their expertise is going to be invaluable in helping to set a new benchmark for food here in Australia.”
summary:7-Eleven stores in Australia are expanding their Japanese food offerings, with onigiri becoming a popular item. Despite speculation that the expansion was triggered by a buyout by 7-Eleven International LLC, it turns out onigiri has been available in Victoria for years and is now making its way up the east coast. The 7-Eleven spokesperson shared that the onigiri, which cost $3.70 and come in flavors like Cooked Spicy Tuna and Chicken Teriyaki, are a hit among customers. The recent acquisition of 7-Eleven Australia by 7-Eleven International LLC has raised hopes among Aussies for more Japanese products in stores. Social media users are excited at the potential for a transformation of the convenience store's food offerings, inspired by the Japanese version of the chain. The spokesperson noted that the Australian chain is focusing on enhancing their food options and collaborating with their international counterparts to bring a new level of food quality to Australia, leveraging 7-Eleven Japan's expertise in this area.
age:35-65
ed:High School
nat:United States
metro:Metro
income:
