url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1l5v8r804mo
article:Family of mum who died saving baby in Bondi attack speaksFamily handout A GoFundMe has been set up in Ashlee Good's name which has raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for her surviving familyThe partner of a mother killed while saving her baby from a stabbing rampage in a busy Sydney shopping centre has spoken out for the first time, saying the day she died will "never make sense". Ashlee Good, 38, was among six people killed by Joel Cauchi at Westfield Bondi Junction on 13 April. Her daughter Harriet, who was nine months old at the time of the attack, was also injured. Australian authorities say the stabbing was "mental health" related, but they believe Cauchi targeted women. Thanking those who had sent donations, Good's partner Dan Flanagan said "the overwhelming support, kindness and generosity" his family had received has given them "strength".Mass killings are rare in Australia, and the attack - at one of the country's biggest and most popular shopping centres - stunned the world. Horrified witnesses have described how Good fled into a nearby store, desperately seeking help for her injured baby girl. In a post to a GoFundMe page, which raised almost A$850,000 (£439,000;$560,000), Mr Flanagan said the loss of his partner - an osteopath who friends described as "full of life and love" - was "unimaginable". "The day our family of three became a family of two will never make sense to me, but countless people... have shown me that while tragic things do unfortunately happen, there is more good in this world, than bad," he wrote. "Nothing will ever dull the pain of losing Ash, but reading your messages and seeing what an impact Ash has had on so many people has provided a lot of comfort."
summary:A mother, Ashlee Good, heroically lost her life protecting her baby during a tragic attack in Sydney. Her partner, Dan Flanagan, deeply appreciates the immense support they have received, allowing them to find strength in such a heartbreaking time. The family has been overwhelmed by the outpouring of kindness and generosity from people around the world. The horrific incident at a popular shopping center has shocked many, highlighting the rare occurrence of mass violence in Australia. Despite the immense loss, the family finds solace in the love and support they have been shown. They are grateful for the donations that have poured in, offering comfort during this difficult time. The GoFundMe page set up for Ashlee Good's family has seen an incredible response, raising nearly $850,000.
age:Under 15
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:United States
metro:
income:$30K-$100K
