url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8697305/ironman-703-wa-hits-capacity-limited-entries-left-for-main-ironman/?cs=1435
article:THE IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached capacity, with limited entries remaining for IRONMAN Western Australia, set to be held on the same day, December 1 2024. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, said IRONMAN 70.3 WA continued to be popular with athletes from all over the world. "We\’re thrilled with the response from athletes... which means we have put up the sold-out sign for this year\’s event, with the only way that athletes can now be involved being through the IRONMAN race," he said. "Athletes from across Australia and around the world are set to make their way to Busselton for this event that is on the bucket list of so many triathletes. "It\’s easy to see why this event is popular, from the incredible swim that goes alongside and under the historic Jetty, to the flat and fast bike course and the run that is lined with cheering spectators." Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin said the sellout was a salute to organisers and the region. "Don\’t despair if you missed out, there\’s still opportunity for triathletes to participate in Busselton for 2024 by signing up for the IRONMAN race, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary in beautiful Busselton," he said.
summary:The popular IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship event has reached its capacity, with limited entries remaining for the upcoming IRONMAN Western Australia on December 1, 2024. Athletes from all over the world are excited to participate in this iconic triathlon event in Busselton. The event, known for its stunning swim route by the historic Jetty, a fast bike course, and a cheering crowd during the run, has now sold out. However, athletes can still join by signing up for the IRONMAN race. Busselton's Mayor encourages triathletes not to miss out on this opportunity to be part of the excitement in 2024, with the event celebrating its 20th anniversary in the beautiful city.
age:Under 15
ed:High School
nat:United States
metro:Metro
income:$30K-$100K
