url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8719337/celebrate-natural-science-week-at-calgardup-cave-events/?cs=1435
article:This month, the Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attraction (DBCA) Parks and Wildlife Services will host fun and educational events at Calgardup Cave to celebrate Natural Science Week. Guided by the theme, "Species Survival: More than just sustainability", the events will explore the fascinating world of biodiversity. Key highlights will be workshops dedicated to the crucial role of invertebrates in maintaining forest health. Tiny creatures such as earthworms, land snails, millipedes, and spiders, collectively known as invertebrates, may seem small and insignificant; however, they are vital in maintaining the balance of our forest ecosystem. Attendees will have the opportunity to assist in surveying these creatures (macrofauna) in the bushland surrounding Calgardup Cave. Through these hands-on activities, participants will gain insights into macrofauna\’s fundamental roles within the ecosystem and learn about the endangered cave fauna reliant on these habitats. "Invertebrates make up around 95 percent of animal biodiversity in Australia, yet most species remain undescribed and are poorly understood," DBCA said. "We want to encourage people of all ages to become citizen scientists by fostering an interest in biodiversity," Cave Manager Carolina Paice said. "This includes exploring and studying the cave environment and appreciating the rich diversity of life that has evolved over millions of years in this biodiversity hotspot." The workshops aim to educate citizen scientists on how they can assist researchers in bridging information gaps and contributing to safeguarding the foundations of our incredible ecosystem\’s beautiful biodiversity. And for all the budding nature photographers out there, Caves staff will provide valuable tips on photographing macrofauna and submitting observations to iNaturalist, an essential platform for environmental data. Participants will also have the chance during the first weekend to interact with remember of the caving club community. Mike Longman from Cavers Leeuwin Incorporated (CLINC), will be on hand to discuss cave surveying and mapping. "I\’ve been caving for the last 45 years and love sharing my passion with other people," Mr Longman said. "These workshops are a great opportunity to show the public how science is integral to understanding and protecting caves." The event excitement continues into the second weekend with bat specialist Kelly Sheldrake from the WA Speleological Society (WASG), who will be surveying bat activity. "It\’s exciting to share knowledge of our bats because many people don\’t realise we have them," Ms Sheldrake said. "They\’re so beneficial, but there\’s a lot of misinformation and a negative perception of these amazing creatures." "Sadly, this has had an impact on bat conservation. "We can do something positive by sharing the value and appreciation of bats with others. "We have a few species found only in our southwest, which is really exciting and special." Cave specialists Jay and Ross Anderson (CLINC) will also be available to discuss cave fauna. Workshops are designed for adults and older children; however, engaging activities for younger children will be available, making this an exciting and informative day for the whole family.
summary:The Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attraction (DBCA) Parks and Wildlife Services will host exciting events at Calgardup Cave to celebrate Natural Science Week. The theme, "Species Survival: More than just sustainability," will be explored through workshops focusing on the important role of small creatures like invertebrates in maintaining forest health. Participants will engage in hands-on activities to survey these vital creatures and learn about their significance to the ecosystem and endangered cave fauna. The goal is to encourage people to become citizen scientists and contribute to protecting biodiversity. Additionally, workshops will offer photography tips for capturing wildlife and insights into cave surveying and bat conservation. The event promises an enriching experience for individuals of all ages interested in nature and science.
age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:Australia
metro:Regional
income:$100K+
