url:https://7news.com.au/news/us-president-joe-bidens-team-defiant-as-more-democrats-say-to-step-aside-c-15413054
article:President Joe Biden\’s top campaign staffer insists that he will stay in the race, even as calls grow among his fellow Democrats in Congress for him to end his floundering re-election bid and make way for a new candidate. More than one in eight congressional Democrats have now publicly called on the 81-year-old incumbent - who is isolating at his Delaware home with a case of COVID - to drop out following a disastrous June debate against Republican Donald Trump that raised questions about Biden\’s ability to win or to carry out his duties for another four years. The divide among Democrats stood in sharp contrast to the scenes that played out his week at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee, where former party rivals united around Trump, who accepted the Republican nomination in a rambling speech that featured his familiar mix of grievance and bombast. So far, 34 of the 264 congressional Democrats have publicly called for Biden to end his campaign, while other senior Democratic leaders have pushed him behind the scenes to do so, according to sources and media reports. They represent more than one in eight Democrats in Congress, where Biden\’s party controls 213 seats in the House of Representatives and 51 in the Senate. “We must face the reality that widespread public concerns about your age and fitness are jeopardising what should be a winning campaign,” Representatives Jared Huffman, Marc Veasey, Chuy Garcia and Marc Pocan wrote in a letter on Friday. Democratic US Senator Martin Heinrich said on social media: “While the decision to withdraw from the campaign is President Biden\’s alone, I believe it is in the best interests of our country for him to step aside.” Democrats are increasingly worried about a Republican sweep in the November 5 election that could leave Trump and his allies not only in charge of the White House but also with majorities in both chambers of Congress.Pass the Torch, a group that wants Biden to step down, has launched a TV ad to air in Washington and Delaware. Biden had no public events scheduled for Friday, but a top adviser said he would return to the campaign trail next week. “He is absolutely in it,” Biden campaign chairwoman Jen O\’Malley Dillon told MSNBC in an interview. Former House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi is among those who have told Biden he cannot win in November, according to a White House source familiar with the matter. After weeks of insisting he will remain in the race, Biden is now taking calls to step aside seriously, and multiple Democratic officials think an exit is a matter of time, sources said. Though a Reuters/Ipsos poll earlier this week found Biden and Trump effectively tied, strategists from both parties say Biden\’s path to victory is narrowing as he trails in most of the battleground states that will decide the election. Were Biden to step aside as a candidate, Vice President Kamala Harris, 59, could fill the role. Reuters/Ipsos polling shows her as performing marginally better against Trump in a theoretical head-to-head matchup. With his grip on the Republican Party never tighter, Trump is in a much stronger position than in his 2017-2021 term to follow through on his agenda if he wins the election. At the convention in Milwaukee, Trump delivered a dramatic account of the attempt on his life by a gunman at a Pennsylvania rally last Saturday and sought to appeal to undecided voters with a promise to be a president for “all of America, not half of America.” “In an age when our politics too often divide us, now is the time to remember that we are all fellow citizens,” Trump said. But he quickly abandoned the message of unity he had promised in the wake of the shooting, pivoting to well-worn attacks on the Biden administration. He claimed without evidence that his criminal indictments were part of a Democratic conspiracy, predicted Biden would usher in “World War III” and described what he called an “invasion” of migrants over the southern border. Trump devoted much of his 92-minute speech to attacking migrants, a theme that has always animated his campaigns.
summary:Top campaign staffers of President Joe Biden are adamant that he will continue his re-election bid, despite growing calls from fellow Democrats for him to step aside. Biden, who is currently isolated with COVID, faced criticism after a poor debate performance in June. Some congressional Democrats have publicly urged him to withdraw, citing concerns about his age and fitness for office. However, Biden's campaign chair affirmed that he is committed to staying in the race. Meanwhile, at the Republican National Convention, Donald Trump accepted the nomination with a speech that focused on issues like immigration and attacks on Democrats. With tensions rising within the Democratic party, there is speculation about the potential for Vice President Kamala Harris to take on a more prominent role in the campaign. The upcoming election appears increasingly crucial as both parties strategize for a victory in November.
age:
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:New Zealand
metro:Metro
income:
