url:https://www.busseltonmail.com.au/story/8697305/ironman-703-wa-hits-capacity-limited-entries-left-for-main-ironman/?cs=1435
article:THE IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached capacity, with limited entries remaining for IRONMAN Western Australia, set to be held on the same day, December 1 2024. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, said IRONMAN 70.3 WA continued to be popular with athletes from all over the world. "We\’re thrilled with the response from athletes... which means we have put up the sold-out sign for this year\’s event, with the only way that athletes can now be involved being through the IRONMAN race," he said. "Athletes from across Australia and around the world are set to make their way to Busselton for this event that is on the bucket list of so many triathletes. "It\’s easy to see why this event is popular, from the incredible swim that goes alongside and under the historic Jetty, to the flat and fast bike course and the run that is lined with cheering spectators." Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin said the sellout was a salute to organisers and the region. "Don\’t despair if you missed out, there\’s still opportunity for triathletes to participate in Busselton for 2024 by signing up for the IRONMAN race, this year celebrating its 20th anniversary in beautiful Busselton," he said.
summary:The IRONMAN 70.3 Western Australia Asia-Pacific Championship has reached full capacity, with limited spots left for the IRONMAN Western Australia event on December 1, 2024. Both races are set to be held on the same day. Geoff Meyer, Managing Director of Oceania for The IRONMAN Group, expressed excitement over the overwhelming response from athletes around the world, making this year's event sold out. Athletes are drawn to the event's stunning swim, fast bike course, and energetic run with cheering spectators. Busselton Mayor Phill Cronin praised the organizers and the region for the event's success, inviting triathletes to participate in the 20th anniversary of the IRONMAN race in the beautiful Busselton.
age:Under 15
ed:High School
nat:United States
metro:Regional
income:$100K+
