url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1l5v8r804mo
article:Family of mum who died saving baby in Bondi attack speaksFamily handout A GoFundMe has been set up in Ashlee Good's name which has raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for her surviving familyThe partner of a mother killed while saving her baby from a stabbing rampage in a busy Sydney shopping centre has spoken out for the first time, saying the day she died will "never make sense". Ashlee Good, 38, was among six people killed by Joel Cauchi at Westfield Bondi Junction on 13 April. Her daughter Harriet, who was nine months old at the time of the attack, was also injured. Australian authorities say the stabbing was "mental health" related, but they believe Cauchi targeted women. Thanking those who had sent donations, Good's partner Dan Flanagan said "the overwhelming support, kindness and generosity" his family had received has given them "strength".Mass killings are rare in Australia, and the attack - at one of the country's biggest and most popular shopping centres - stunned the world. Horrified witnesses have described how Good fled into a nearby store, desperately seeking help for her injured baby girl. In a post to a GoFundMe page, which raised almost A$850,000 (£439,000;$560,000), Mr Flanagan said the loss of his partner - an osteopath who friends described as "full of life and love" - was "unimaginable". "The day our family of three became a family of two will never make sense to me, but countless people... have shown me that while tragic things do unfortunately happen, there is more good in this world, than bad," he wrote. "Nothing will ever dull the pain of losing Ash, but reading your messages and seeing what an impact Ash has had on so many people has provided a lot of comfort."
summary:A tragic incident took place at Westfield Bondi Junction where six people, including hero mom Ashlee Good, lost their lives in a stabbing rampage. Good sacrificed herself to save her 9-month-old baby during the attack. The community has rallied around Good's partner, Dan Flanagan, and their surviving daughter, Harriet, by raising nearly $850,000 in donations. This support has given the family strength during this incredibly difficult time. Good's loved ones remember her as a vibrant and loving woman, and although her loss is incomprehensible, the kindness shown by strangers has provided some solace. The incident has shocked Australia and the world due to its rarity in the country.
age:15-35
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:
metro:Regional
income:
