url:https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-08-12/john-longmire-craig-mcrae-swans-magpies-extraordinary-admission/104215324
article:Sydney coach John Longmire has fired back at Collingwood counterpart Craig McRae over the "extraordinary admission" in his comments about a contentious umpiring decision. McRae was left seething when whistleblowers did not award Dan McStay a 50-metre penalty in the dying stages of the Magpies\’ three-point loss to the Swans last Friday night. In the immediate aftermath, McRae said "it would have been paid at the MCG" and also highlighted what he felt was a "circus" surrounding insufficient intent calls during the match. Longmire laughed on Monday when asked by reporters for his opinion about McRae\’s comments. "It was an extraordinary admission from the coach of a team that has the biggest home-ground advantage in the AFL," Longmire said. "This year they play 14 games at the MCG (and) they play three at Marvel (Stadium). "That\’s 17 games essentially in front of their home crowd, and they play finals and obviously the grand final on their home deck. "I wonder what (Brisbane Lions coach) Chris Fagan thought of those comments. "That was my initial thought, \’I wonder what Chris Fagan thinks of this?\’ "Because it\’s a pretty extraordinary admission from the club that has the biggest home-ground advantage in the competition." Fagan\’s Brisbane suffered an agonising four-point defeat to Collingwood in last year\’s grand final at the MCG, where they were on the wrong end of a late umpiring decision. Advantage was called on Lions forward Zac Bailey, who seemingly hadn\’t heard the whistle after a free-kick was paid to teammate Lachie Neale. Bailey\’s rushed kick under pressure was cleared by Collingwood, who then hung on for a famous flag triumph. Longmire laughed again when asked if McRae\’s comments on Friday night had "soured" Sydney\’s victory. The premiership coach then suggested Collingwood had got away with an infringement late in their come-from-behind win over North Melbourne in June. The AFL later clarified umpires were right not to penalise Magpies players for stepping over the mark. "I was at the North Melbourne-Collingwood game (in round 14) when a couple of Collingwood boys went over the mark and it could\’ve been a 50 and it wasn\’t paid," Longmire said. "I just think from the coach of a team with the biggest home-ground advantage, including grand finals at the MCG … geez. "You don\’t often hear it from the team with the biggest home-ground advantage, do you? "I can\’t say whether I agree with it or not because I\’m going to stay out of that." The AFL is yet to make a statement on whether a 50-metre penalty should have been handed to McStay. Sydney retained top spot on the ladder with their come-from-behind win on Friday night, while Collingwood\’s finals hopes are now out of their hands. The Magpies must win their two remaining games against Brisbane and Melbourne, and have other results fall their way.
summary:In a recent AFL match between Sydney and Collingwood, there was controversy over an umpiring decision that Collingwood coach Craig McRae felt should have been a 50-metre penalty. Sydney coach John Longmire responded, pointing out Collingwood's advantage of playing many games at the MCG, which he felt was a significant home-ground advantage. This situation echoed a similar incident from last year's grand final. Despite the drama, Sydney remains at the top of the ladder while Collingwood's chances for finals are uncertain. The AFL has yet to comment on the penalty controversy.
age:65+
ed:
nat:New Zealand
metro:Regional
income:Under $30K
