url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cdd7enz9r0qo
article:Woman charged in alleged plan to steal Elvis's GracelandInside Elvis Presley's Graceland home in TennesseeA Missouri woman is accused of trying to defraud Elvis Presley's family of millions of dollars and steal the family's ownership interest in Graceland, the US singing legend's family home. Lisa Jeanine Findley, who used a variety of aliases, was arrested for allegedly orchestrating a scheme to conduct a fraudulent sale of Graceland, located in Memphis, Tennessee home. Ms Findley, 53, was federally charged with mail fraud and aggravated identity theft and was expected to appear in court Friday. If convicted, she could face up to 20 years in prison. The Presley family has not publicly commented on the charges.The US Justice Department claims Ms Findley posed as three different individuals associated with a fictitious private lender called Naussany Investments & Private Lending LLC (Naussany Investments). The DOJ alleges she falsely claimed Elvis Presley's daughter - Lisa Marie Presley, who died in January 2023 - had borrowed $3.8m (£3m) from Naussany Investments, pledged Graceland as collateral for the loan and failed to repay the debt. Ms Findley allegedly was seeking $2.85m ($2.2m GBP) from Presley's family to settle the alleged debt, according to the DOJ.police handout
summary:A woman in Missouri is facing charges for allegedly trying to scam Elvis Presley's family out of millions by attempting to take ownership of Graceland. Lisa Jeanine Findley used fake identities to orchestrate a fraudulent sale of the legendary singer's home. Findley could face up to 20 years in prison if convicted. The Presley family has not yet commented on the situation. The US Justice Department claims Findley pretended to be associated with a fake lender to fabricate a debt owed by Elvis's late daughter, Lisa Marie Presley, who passed away in January 2023. Findley allegedly aimed to extort money from the family to settle the bogus debt.

age:15-35
ed:High School
nat:New Zealand
metro:Regional
income:$30K-$100K
