url:https://www.theguardian.com/sport/article/2024/jul/20/wallabies-australia-georgia-rugby-union-test-match-report
article:The Wallabies survived a scare to keep their unbeaten run under Joe Schmidt alive with a hard-earned 40-29 victory over Georgia in Sydney. The 12th-ranked Georgians threatened to spring a surprise after closing to within two points of the hosts early in the second half before the Wallabies kicked away late at Allianz Stadium on Saturday. Schmidt made 10 changes to the side that beat Wales 36-28 last Saturday in Melbourne and some seized the opportunity, while others didn’t. New flyhalf Ben Donaldson didn’t look the answer to Australia’s playmaking dilemma, his kicking and decision-making too often poor. The Wallabies had the tireless back row of Fraser McReight, Rob Valetini and Harry Wilson largely to thank for helping secure three straight wins for the national side for the first time since 2021 when under Dave Rennie. Lock Nick Frost and first-time starting prop Isaac Kailea were also strong but the first-half dismissal of winger Filipo Daugunu for a dangerous tackle made life difficult for the home side. Daugunu’s initial yellow card for kneeing Georgian winger Demur Tapladze in the head while airborne and trying to charge down a kick was elevated to a red at half-time. The disruption didn’t help Schmidt’s new-look outfit as they struggled to put the spirited eastern Europeans away. Still, the Wallabies looked to have the game wrapped up with a 26-10 lead into the break. After falling behind to a second-minute penalty goal to impressive Georgia five-eighth Luka Matkava, the Wallabies crossed for three tries in 15 minutes through centre Hunter Paisami, Valetini and Kailea. Then the hosts lost their way. Ill-discipline and Daugunu’s departure invited the eastern Europeans back into the contest as Georgia reduced the deficit to 19-10 with a 33rd-minute converted try to lock Micheil Babunashvili. Only a driving maul try to man of the match McReight on the stroke of half-time gave the Wallabies some breathing space. And it didn’t last long as Georgia closed to within two points of Australia with two scintillating tries early in the second half through fullback Davit Niniashvili and lightning winger Akaki Tabutsadze. For all their pluck and resilience, the tide turned back in the Wallabies’ favour after Georgia themselves were reduced to 14 men with the sin-binning of Niniashvili for a deliberate knock down as Australia pounded their line. A McReight break and 40-metre burst set up Valetini’s second try and there was no coming back from The Lelos. McReight completed his own try double to restore Australia’s 16-point advantage before Tabutsadze crossed for a consolation second five-pointer late on. Schmidt, conceding pre-match it was difficult to strike a balance between building depth and winning, will take the victory. But after Eddie Jones’ side downed Georgia by 20 points during last year’s ill-fated World Cup campaign, the new coach will also recognise the Wallabies need to improve markedly for their Rugby Championship opener against the top-ranked Springboks in Brisbane on 10 August.
summary:The Wallabies had a tough match against Georgia, but managed to secure a 40-29 victory in Sydney. Despite some challenges, the Wallabies showed resilience and determination, with standout performances from players like Fraser McReight, Rob Valetini, and Harry Wilson. The game was intense, with Georgia threatening to take the lead at points, but ultimately the Wallabies held on for the win. The team will need to continue improving as they face tough competition in the upcoming Rugby Championship.
age:Under 15
ed:
nat:
metro:Regional
income:Under $30K
