url:https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1l5v8r804mo
article:Family of mum who died saving baby in Bondi attack speaksFamily handout A GoFundMe has been set up in Ashlee Good's name which has raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for her surviving familyThe partner of a mother killed while saving her baby from a stabbing rampage in a busy Sydney shopping centre has spoken out for the first time, saying the day she died will "never make sense". Ashlee Good, 38, was among six people killed by Joel Cauchi at Westfield Bondi Junction on 13 April. Her daughter Harriet, who was nine months old at the time of the attack, was also injured. Australian authorities say the stabbing was "mental health" related, but they believe Cauchi targeted women. Thanking those who had sent donations, Good's partner Dan Flanagan said "the overwhelming support, kindness and generosity" his family had received has given them "strength".Mass killings are rare in Australia, and the attack - at one of the country's biggest and most popular shopping centres - stunned the world. Horrified witnesses have described how Good fled into a nearby store, desperately seeking help for her injured baby girl. In a post to a GoFundMe page, which raised almost A$850,000 (£439,000;$560,000), Mr Flanagan said the loss of his partner - an osteopath who friends described as "full of life and love" - was "unimaginable". "The day our family of three became a family of two will never make sense to me, but countless people... have shown me that while tragic things do unfortunately happen, there is more good in this world, than bad," he wrote. "Nothing will ever dull the pain of losing Ash, but reading your messages and seeing what an impact Ash has had on so many people has provided a lot of comfort."
summary:A mother heroically saved her baby in a tragic attack at a shopping center in Sydney. The family of Ashlee Good, who tragically lost her life in the incident, have received an outpouring of support, raising hundreds of thousands of dollars. Her partner, Dan Flanagan, expressed gratitude for the kindness and generosity the family has received, bringing them strength during this difficult time. The incident, which took place at a popular shopping center, shocked the nation and the world. Good's partner shared that the loss of his partner is unimaginable, but the support they have received has been a source of comfort. The tragic event, while devastating, has shown the family that there is more good in the world than bad.
age:Under 15
ed:Bachelor's Degree
nat:United States
metro:Metro
income:
