The distortion is the result of the Mercator projection, the map most commonly seen hanging in classrooms and in text books. It gives the right shapes of land masses, but at the cost of distorting their sizes in favour of the wealthy lands to the north. The biggest challenge is that it is impossible to portray the reality of the spherical world on a flat map. As a result, shapes of world maps have typically been diverse, ranging from hearts to cones.
Two lawyers representing Virginia Roberts, who claims to have had sex while a minor with prominent U.S. criminal defense lawyer Alan Dershowitz, have filed a counter-defamation lawsuit against him. Former federal judge Paul Cassell and Florida plaintiffs. attorney Bradley Edwards filed the lawsuit in a Florida circuit. court, accusing Ders howitz of initiating a public media assault. In a filing in Florida federal court last week, Cassell. and Edwards said their client was forced. as a minor by financier Jeffrey Epstein to have sex with several. people, including DersHowitz and Prince Andrew. On Monday Derswayitz, who was part of O.J. Simpson's 'dream team', filed defamation suits
Sarah Ernhart, the owner of Sarah Beth Photography in Minneapolis, created them in what she dubbed a 'Joy Session' She records owners' last embrace with their pets that are too old to live or have been diagnosed with terminal illnesses. The service has become so popular that Mrs Ernhart has built a directory of photographers around the world who shoot terminally ill pets.
Manchester United beat Southampton 2-1 at St Mary's Stadium on Monday night. Paddy McNair was replaced by Louis van Gaal after only 39 minutes. The 19-year-old was struggling to contain Southampton strikers Shane Long and Graziano Pelle. Van Gaal said he 'had to' replace McNair because the defender's 'confidence' was shot - but believes it will benefit him in the long run.
Pfizer, Walgreen, Medtronic, Mylan have announced plans to invert to avoid U.S. taxes. Julian Zelizer: Corporations get a permanent break when they invert because the United States will not tax profits earned outside its borders. He says Congress can easily bar corporations from pretending to be foreign companies. Zelizer says the White House proposal to bar inversions would be a good start.
Digital Detox Holidays offer the chance to leave your smartphone at home and enjoy all the luxury. Locations are marketed in the US, the Caribbean, and even a 'Lifehouse Spa' in Thorpe-le-Soken, Essex. Half of all Brits polled admit to checking work e-mails while away and four in 10 say having access to social media is'very important' to them.
Nigerian and Cameroonian pop star Dencia has hit out at Miss Nyong'o for her new contract with Lancome. In an angry tweet directed at the 12 Years A Slave star, she wrote: 'Oh @Lupita_Nyongo cln't talk abt the bleaching creams white people (Companies) make cuz the white man pays her, they own her!! [sic]'
Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon and Air Commodore Andrew Lambert called for Britain to ramp up military options in Iraq. They spoke out after gruesome images were published on the internet of a jihadist, with a British accent, murdering US journalist James Foley. Sir Michael said the West must be prepared for jihadists taking retribution against other hostages as they were pounded by air strikes.
Claudia Yanira Hernandez Soriano, 25, and Juan Francisco Martinez Rojas, 28, started punching and scratching each other at their Bergen, New Jersey home early on Monday. When his mother, Ana Angelina Rojas-Jovel, 45, tried to break them up, Soriano allegedly assaulted the woman, who suffered a cardiac arrest. A seven-year-old child also witnessed the fight, according to the prosecutor, but he did not reveal the relationship between the adults and the youngster. Police responded to a 911 call from the apartment just after 4am on Monday and when they arrived, they found the woman dead on a bedroom floor.
NEW: The Red Cross takes the casualties to a hospital in Baalbek. The Syrian government has accused rebels of smuggling arms and supplies across the border. More than 600,000 Syrians have fled to neighboring Lebanon, according to a U.N. estimate. The Lebanese government puts the total at more than 1 million.
